Titus 3:1–7 — Dumb Laws


3:1 Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work. 3:2 They must not slander anyone, but be peaceable, gentle, showing complete courtesy to all people. 3:3 For we too were once foolish, disobedient, misled, enslaved to various passions and desires, spending our lives in evil and envy, hateful and hating one another. 3:4 But "when the kindness of God our Savior and his love for mankind appeared, 3:5 he saved us not by works of righteousness that we have done but on the basis of his mercy, through the washing of the new birth and the renewing of the Holy Spirit, 3:6 whom he poured out on us in full measure through Jesus Christ our Savior. 3:7 And so, since we have been justified by his grace, we become heirs with the confident expectation of eternal life."
— Titus 3:1–7 (NET)


In my reading this week I came across a website that lists dumb laws from around the world. Some of these laws are real stinkers. For instance, it's against the law to flush your toilet after 10pm in Switzerland. Also in Switzerland, if you leave your keys in the ignition of your vehicle and the door of your car open, you can be arrested and taken to jail. In South Korea, if you are a police officer and you are bribed and you accept the bribe, it's against the law not to report yourself to the police station. In the UK it's perfectly legal to shoot a Scotsman with a bow and arrow Monday through Saturday, but on Sunday you'll go to prison. Just in case you were considering it, you may not hang your bed out your window on Sundays in the UK. Closer to home, in Canada businesses must provide rails for tying up horses — and if you scare a person and they die, you're automatically guilty of murder. In California it's against the law to walk your elephant without a leash on Thursdays.

Our passage tonight says we are to be subject to authorities. That's easy when you have a leader you like. My guess is most of you voted for Trump — most of you are happy he's in office, happy with his actions. I'm really glad he repealed government funding for abortions. I think that's a vile and immoral practice that we as a nation should be ashamed of. Eradication of abortion would be ideal, but short of that we have to push for and be happy with these small victories.

But it's easy when we have a president we like. It's much more difficult when the leader seems to be attacking our way of life, attacking the church, attacking Scripture. It's much more difficult to follow the rules of an evil, arbitrary, or capricious person. In Argentina, for instance, the last number in your license plate determines the days you're allowed to drive. I can hear it now — Sorry boss, just got my new license plate, can't work on Mondays and Fridays anymore!

But we know this, don't we? We had eight long years under a man who through his capriciousness or mal-intent pulled our country hard away from the Lord. As a people we seemed to care less for holiness, less for helping the needy around us, less about refugees from war-torn countries, less about God in general — and in particular there was increased apathy and vitriol toward Christ. They wanted references to Christianity removed from the public square while Muslim religious services were being held in the White House. I'm sure you could each come up with a handful of examples I didn't mention.

Under the last administration our response as a nation should have been to pull toward Christ. But instead we evangelical believers en masse decided it wasn't more of Jesus we needed — it was a politician. It wasn't more of Christ our country needed. We didn't turn to evangelism and disciple more people. Instead we got on the internet and fought over who ought to lead our country and why. Is that important? Yes. But I understand this is a little like the man asleep in bed when his house caught fire and then collapsed. What killed him — did he burn alive, or was he still alive when the house collapsed, only to be crushed by falling timber? Our leaders in this country are a reflection of the state of its people, morally and spiritually.

Many, many people argue that the leader of our country can cause people to turn their back on their faith, on scriptural priorities, on biblical morality and so forth. I'm here to tell you that if such a person exists, they were likely never saved to begin with.

There is a huge segment of our population that self-identifies as Christian but neither knows what it means to be a Christian nor knows Christ himself — and so one day, to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord in judgment or paradise. One day when those people see Christ face to face, he will say, "Depart from me, I never knew you."

Tim Keller has observed: "If you can't show the difference between religion and the gospel, people will confuse morality with a changed heart." I think this is in large part at the heart of the issue. People confuse cultural affiliation with a changed heart — with the transformation that can only come through a relationship with Jesus Christ. This huge segment of people we've been talking about only knows that culturally it's normal, it's normative, to self-identify that way. People have the Jesus fish on their car, put crosses around their necks, paste vaguely moral sayings on their shirts — and worse, some churches are filled with people who bear the outward marks of Christianity but in their heart of hearts lack Christ on the throne of their life. They are just as lost as some Satan-worshiping cannibal.

Obama didn't make people cultural Christians. Obama didn't force the church to spend less time evangelizing. Obama didn't force people to wear a cross around their neck, and Obama certainly didn't force people to put down their Bibles or attend churches where they won't hear the truth of Scripture. Obama didn't send these people to hell. Their sin does. If anything I think Obama may have agitated some of these same people to action — political action.

Entire churches in our denomination have been distracted by politics instead of obedient to the cross. I watched some of the Southern Baptist Convention on live stream this past year, and when people preached their hearts out about sharing the gospel with the lost there was relative silence. A smattering of applause. This guy and that guy clapping. That pastor over there looked bored. And yet when some political hack would get up and shout, "Ra ra ra, America!" the applause was deafening. This, my friends, is idolatry. People stand in the spotlight and shout with bellicosity about making America great again, and these pastors would cheer. But when people would talk about making great the name of Christ, those who cheered were in the minority.

Point is, we need to be subject to our leaders, but not worshipful of them. We need to be active and informed politically, but if you are spending more time and energy on politics than on Jesus, that's a problem — that is an idol for you. Anything you put above obedience to God is an idol. Maybe it's a relationship, or an activity you participate in that you know God wouldn't approve of. That's an idol.

Secondly, we're told not to slander. Not to run people down with our words. Not to talk badly about them behind their back. This is something that happens all too often, and perhaps more frequently regarding our former president. Some people make slander easy, but that doesn't make it right.


Paul then launches into the gospel — verse 3:

For we too were once foolish, disobedient, misled, enslaved to various passions and desires, spending our lives in evil and envy, hateful and hating one another. But "when the kindness of God our Savior and his love for mankind appeared, he saved us not by works of righteousness that we have done but on the basis of his mercy, through the washing of the new birth and the renewing of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us in full measure through Jesus Christ our Savior. And so, since we have been justified by his grace, we become heirs with the confident expectation of eternal life."

This whole book of the Bible has been building to this point right here. Since we have been justified by his grace, we become heirs with the confident expectation of eternal life. This is the goal of God's merciful salvation. This is the reason he died on the cross for us — so that we could be justified, and then spend eternity with him in heaven. Do you know anyone else who would die for you? I know when I was a kid I would get very angry the few times I was punished for my sister's wrongs. I resented even taking a spanking for her when I didn't deserve it. Yet we deserved death, and Christ died for us in our place so that we could spend eternity with him. Because his blood silences the accuser.


You may have seen this on Facebook — I posted it the other day, but it warrants repeating.

Two Jewish men were sitting one night in Egypt — let's call them Brown and Smith. Very Jewish names. They were getting ready for the final plague under Moses in Egypt. They had seen the flies and frogs and boils and blood and darkness. They had seen the lice, the diseased livestock, hailstones, and locusts. And now they were being told to cover the doorposts and lintel of their houses with blood and make preparations, because that night everyone who had not done so would lose their firstborn. So Smith and Brown had both done as they were commanded, and they were sitting around a table discussing this latest thing Moses had prophesied.

Smith was a little worried — he had only one son, and he'd seen firsthand the plagues. Brown said, "You don't have to be nervous. Haven't you daubed your doorposts and lintel with blood? Aren't you going to have the Passover meal with your family? What is there to worry about?"

Smith replied, "You know, it's all right for you — you've got three sons. If something happens to one, there are still two left. But me, I've only got the one son. If he's gone, what do I have left? I love him, and don't you know the angel of death is passing through? It's scary. I'll be glad when this night is over."

Brown replied, "Bring it on. I trust the promises of God."

That night the angel of death passed through the land. Which one do you think lost his son?

The answer is neither. Because death didn't pass over them on the grounds of the faith they possessed, but on the grounds of the blood of the lamb.

The blood of the lamb silences the accuser of the brethren as he accuses us before God. He silences our consciences when the enemy accuses us directly. How often do we accuse ourselves and say, How can God possibly love us after we've done such stupid and rebellious things — after being Christians for four or forty years? I have no other argument, I need no other plea — it is enough that Jesus died for me. The blood of the lamb is the ground of all human assurance. It's not the intensity of our faith but the author of our faith that saves us.


In a moment the praise team is going to come up and sing a song.

If you have never come to a point in your life where you've asked Jesus to pay the price for your sins, tonight is the night. You stand now at a crossroads. On one side is eternal life, and on the other an eternity in hell. There is no choosing to do nothing. Attending church isn't enough. You can even join a church, but that isn't enough either. It's not enough to associate culturally with Christ. Even if you could follow all the rules from this point forward and look convincing — looking convincing is not enough. You must have a relationship with Jesus Christ, or all is lost. While the praise team sings, be thinking about which direction your life is heading. Are you heading for ruin? Or have you been justified by his grace, made an heir with the confident expectation of eternal life?
