Titus 1:1–4 — Slavery: A Picture of Salvation


Slavery is one of those subjects that makes our collective skin crawl a little bit. When we think of slavery, what do we think of? Whips, killing, starving, forced breeding — generally speaking horrible treatment. We think of the 1700s and 1800s here in America where we as a people did those horrible things to other people. Capturing people, breaking up families, forced mating, selling off the children. Slavery in America, and even in other societies across time, has largely been a tool for evil. The Israelites were slaves in Egypt — forced to work, to make bricks, to the point where God's people thought their backs would break under the labor.

Hammurabi's Code, which was huge in the Middle East, had hundreds of laws regarding slaves. The laws were harsh — governing almost every facet of a slave's life — and they were harsher still. If a slave took sanctuary and the person sheltering them inadvertently provided food or water or shelter, both the slave and the sheltering party could be put to death.

Then something happened. Moses came along and God used him to free the Israelites from Egyptian slavery. In the years that followed, God inspired Moses, and he wrote something called the Mosaic Law where he turned slavery on its ear. Slavery was allowed. You could sell yourself into it. Bought a farm on a loan but grasshoppers consumed your crop? You could enter into slavery, pay your debts, and in seven years be free to return to your farm and try again. Likewise, thieves who were caught were made slaves to repay the debt. Foreigners — prisoners of war, for instance — could be taken as slaves rather than killing them. Slaves would work the fields, butcher the meat, cook the meals, build great public works.

But the humanitarian side was not neglected. Slaves were considered part of the household — treated on the level of a servant. You could not beat them to death. Abuse was prohibited. They must be housed, fed, not worked to death. They could take or be given spouses. But a Hebrew slave especially was well treated and a part of the family — even to the point of circumcision. If a master caused a slave to flee, whoever gave them sanctuary was required to welcome them and not return them to their former master. Hebrew slavery under the Mosaic Law was starkly different from any other culture before or since.

The way Israel treated slaves had an impact on the world around them. Greek and Roman treatment of slaves began to improve as word spread. Christianity had a huge impact as well, and by the fourth century after Christ you could take your master to court and have him put in jail for mistreatment. Ultimately Rome eliminated one's ability to sell oneself as a slave. By the fifth century, slaves were able to rise extremely high in Roman society — in large part due to the pressures of Christianity and the New Testament writings of Paul.

Paul spoke into the culture and rather than condemning slavery, he preached a slavery that was counter to the slavery of the Roman world. Christian slaves were called to be more obedient and to serve their masters in such a way that God would be glorified in their slavery. Slave masters were to treat their slaves with brotherly love, kindness, and the utmost fairness — because before God all men are equal.

Clement of Alexandria wrote in the second century: "They are to be treated like ourselves. For they are human beings, as we are. God is the same to free and slave." (c. 195)

This sounds like a stark contrast to what we know happened in the American slave years. I read a story this week about a fourteen-year-old girl — a slave — kept on a plantation. Every day she was raped by her master. Every day his wife would beat her or have her beaten. She was a pawn in their marriage. She had done no wrong, and yet she was repeatedly victimized. Over the course of her life as a slave she became pregnant ten times and miscarried nine of them — the losses attributed in the records to her "falling down."

These two systems of slavery were diametrically opposed. So with those definitions in mind, let's read Titus 1:1–4.

What do your different translations say for the word "servant"? Does anyone have a Bible that says something different?

You probably don't. The ESV has a footnote and an explanation of the Greek word *doulos*. The only translation that gave a decent rendering of the Greek was the New Living Translation — a translation I don't particularly like, but on this point they hit the nail on the head.

*Doulos* means slave. The Anchor Yale Bible Dictionary defines it as "slave as an entity in a socioeconomic institution" — or a debtor slave.

This idea of Hebrew debtor slavery captured my imagination this week. A given Hebrew racks up a debt and cannot pay it. A kindly master steps in, makes them part of the family, pays their debt, and sets them free at the appointed time. Hebrew slavery done in accordance with Scripture was a strong act of mercy.

The Israelites didn't know it, but God painted a picture of what he would do in the midst of their slavery.

You and I are slaves to sin. Jesus says so in John 8:34: "Most assuredly, I say to you, whoever commits sin is a slave of sin."

Who of us hasn't committed sin? Scripture says we have all sinned and fall short of the glory of God — we missed the mark, fell short of God's standard for us. Because we have sinned we are slaves to sin. Paul writes in Romans 6 that apart from Christ we are under sin's dominion. Under the law, the Israelites had to work hard to measure up, and if they didn't they had to slay an animal to cover their sin. Their sin debt wasn't removed — the shackles were still there. Sin was their awful master; the death of an animal covered the sin for a time but could never satisfy the debt.

It's interesting that every culture and every religion has the idea of man being able to work hard enough or do enough good to balance the cosmic scales in their favor. Islam has a pilgrimage you can make, and all sorts of other things that try to tip the scales toward good. But the prophet Jeremiah wrote: "The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked." We always say follow your heart — but our hearts lead where? If the heart is deceitful and wicked above all things, it's going to desire things that are against God. "There is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins." — Ecclesiastes 7:20.

*Tabletalk* magazine put it this way:

"The fundamental creational reality known as the covenant of works made with Adam and his posterity in the garden. God promised in this covenant to give Adam and his descendants unfettered access to the tree of life if Adam did not eat the forbidden fruit (Gen. 2). In Romans 5:12–21, Paul says the obedience of the last Adam — Jesus — gives us eternal life. If the last Adam's obedience grants us eternal life, the first Adam's obedience would have done the same had he not fallen. That people seek to be saved by their good works reflects a basic awareness of this covenant of works in Adam."

That's a fancy way of saying: everyone knows they've screwed things up. Everyone knows they fall short of what's expected. Everyone thinks they can try just a little bit harder and get there. But what do we bring to the table in salvation? What did a slave bring to the table when he wanted his freedom? Ephesians 2 describes us as corpses. What does a corpse bring to the table when it comes to his health?

What can wicked and holy have in common?

We bring nothing to the table but the sin that made salvation necessary.

To go back to the slave analogy — the slave has no say in his freedom. In American or Egyptian slavery, if someone ordered their slave to do something that would probably kill them, they had to do it. Slaves get no say. Slaves have the choice to obey or die. Apart from Christ, we can only obey our master — sin.

Then along came Christ, who purchased us back. "Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? For you were bought at a price; therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's." — 1 Corinthians 6:19–20.

We have this idea of individualism here in America — that I am enough, that if I just work hard enough I can do anything. For the most part that's true in our country. You can grow up poor, child of a single mom, part of a disadvantaged group, and end up president. But in the kingdom of heaven it's impossible. The only way is to be bought. God has to do the work for us. Your death or mine would never be sufficient to pay mankind's sin debt. Only Christ's death can do that.

God in his infinite mercy and grace sent his Son to die for us. We deserved to die, but Christ died for us and in so doing paid our slave debt. We are now slaves to Christ, whose yoke is easy and whose burden is light. We are brought into the family. We are given a better deal than even the Hebrews gave the Hebrews — because we aren't just given a bed in the house, we're given a new last name. We are made family of God.

We want our church sign to say: Taking strangers, making family. It's a double entendre — family in the earthly sense, that we are going to be family to those who come in. But also family in the spiritual, eternal sense — that we are going to do everything we can to live as Christ to people and share the gospel with them so they can become part of God's family too.

If you're here today and you are a slave to sin, let me tell you the good news. Jesus Christ has bought your slave debt.

Romans 5:8–9. John 3:16. Romans 10:9.
