The Turks originated in Turan, a region that lies between the Caspian Sea and the Mongolian Desert. They arrived in Anatolia, Turkey in the eleventh century as conquering warriors, and ruled much of the world as part of the Ottoman empire. The Ottoman empire existed until the birth of the Turkish nation in 1923. Turkey is a secular republic and sits symbolically between the "Christian" West and the Muslim world. Unfortunately the Turks think that to become a Christian is to be forced to abandon ones family, and so they resist the gospel pretty strongly out of fear of losing those they love. Of all the 60m turks in the world, less than one hundredth of one percent know Jesus Christ. 

Who will pray for the turks of turkey?

When I was a kid, we were camping somewhere, and dad sent my sister and I out on a scavenger hunt. We had to find dead grass, sticks, rocks, bottle caps, and a dozen other things. It took us a while, but we eventually found almost all the things we had been sent for. 

We brought them back to our campsite and while we had been looking around for this list of about 20 things dad had built a campfire. One item at a time, he tossed the things from our scavenger hunt into the fire. The grass lasted a brief moment and was consumed by the fire. He tossed in the stick, and it lasted a brief moment and was consumed by the fire, he tossed in the leaves, and they lasted but a brief moment and were consumed, and on and on down the list he tossed an item in and it was consumed. Until we got to the rock. He stuck the rock in the fire, and the rocks color was affected, it turned black with soot, but it was not consumed. 

A famous preacher named C. T. Studd said “Only one life twill soon be past, only whats done for Christ will last. 

Today were going to be talking about what we will leave behind. One day all of us will end up dead in the Lords timing. None of us are promised tomorrow, we do not know what day and the hour that we will die, but God does. Some of us, who knows, the Lord may return before that day comes and we end up standing in the presence of God. Either way absent from the body present with the Lord. So were standing there in God’s presence and what is he going to see is the result of your life? 

Think of it like this, every action we take is a board, or a nail, or a stone used in the construction of the house that symbolizes our legacy – as individuals, and as a church. In our passage this morning, Paul says everything that we do will be subjected to the fire. Things we do that are not done for Christ will be consumed by the fire. What will be left of the house when God’s fire comes? 

The first house I ever lived in was a neat little house. It was very small, it had been a preschool that my parents had moved to a piece of property that they had purchased. It had this nice stone work on the outside, and stucco. Other than that though the entire house was made out of fat pine, or pitch pine. Have you ever heard of pitch pine? It’s the real sappy extra flammable part of a pine tree. It can be lit with a match and burns hot and fast. Its pretty wood, but if you give it an angry glance it ignites. If that place had to stand up to God’s fire there would have been some rock, some stucco and some nailed that survived. 

What sort of building materials are your actions sending to heaven? Everything we do sends something. Are you sending leaves, and sticks and grass? Or are you sending things that will last? 

Lets read 1 cor 3:10-15

Life is SO busy for most of us amen? I was thinking about a given week. In a week there are 168 hours. Most of you work, and there go 40 of those hours leaving us with 128. 60 of those hours are spent sleeping on average leaving us with 68 hours. We spend on average about an hour and a quarter preparing for and cleaning up from meals. We spend on average an hour and a quarter eating throughout the day. My family I think spends a little more than that at dinner alone. Either way these averages work out to be about 18 additional hours each week leaving us with 50 hours. We started with 168, now we only have 50 left. On average a given American will spend over an hour a day in the bathroom, that includes all necessary body functions. I have a niece that spends about three times that in the bathroom. There goes another 7 hours leaving us with 43. Getting read – be it for work, or a date, or for the day. On average in the south we spend 117 minutes, just shy of two hours a day getting ready for the day. There goes 14 more hours leaving us with 29. On average we spend 7 hours arguing each week. 5 hours complaining and 10 hours gossiping. Now we are down to 7 precious hours, From 168 hours we are now left with 7.  all of you have kids or grandkids that you either interact with, or wish you could interact with. Most of us have hobbies, and spend time with friends, and watch television and different things through the week. I read a statistic that the average American individual watches 35 hours of television in a week. That’s practically a full time job! On top of that the average American spends almost 10 hours a week playing videogames. I don’t really play video games much any more, I have a couple that I play on my phone while I’m somewhere waiting. So I suspect a lot of you are like me on that, in terms of playing little or no video games, but I’ll tell you the younger generation is making up for our lack of gaming. 

how is it you are spending your time? Are you spending it on things that matter? 

So many of you do so much around here. Teaching kids, coming early and setting up, staying after and cleaning up. Coming mid week and cleaning and decorating and facilitating all of the things that happen here at this church. Most of you support us with your checkbooks too, and that is a necessary and important thing too. Some of you are involved in sharing the gospel with those in your community and that you encounter in your day to day life. With discipling the newer believers in your midst. Some of you are involved with raising kids and Grandkids to love the Lord, and to have a relationship with him, and teaching them that God is the most important thing in your life, and in their life. This is not an exhaustive list, there are other good things out there that many of you are involved with. And I love that about this church. 

Its easy though to get bogged down in things that C. T. Studd, and I think Paul would have said don’t matter. Only one life will soon be past, only whats done for Christ will last. 
I read that the average female in the workplace spends 45 minutes per day styling and washing her hair. I appreciate nice hair I do. Men can spend a lot of time on stuff like that too, I should probably spend more time on mine. LOL. regardless I couldn’t find that particular statistic for men. But let me ask you, when you read back across scripture about the people that made a difference in the world. How many of them are remembered for their hair?  There are a couple. One is called a hairy beast of a man, another is said to have chest hair like a donkey, and a third had arm hair like a sheep to the point where when his blind father grabbed an imposters arm that was wrapped in a sheep skin daddy couldn’t tell the difference. None of them were remembered for having nice hair. In terms of what we are sending ahead to heaven, is our physical appearance hay, or gold or stone? Is it something that’s going to matter in eternity? Now I’m not saying to live like John the Baptist, who wore a suit of camal hair, and survived off locusts and honey. I’m saying if you spend 15 or 20 hours a week on your appearance you might be over focused on how you look, and not focused enough on God’s kingdom. 

When it comes to video games, or TV, or movies, I’m not saying don’t spend time on entertainment, but I am saying spending too much time on entertainment at the expense of the important things of God is sinful. I’m a seminary student, and if I spend too much time focused on on homework at the expense of the gospel, and spending time on my relationship with God – even though my bible is usually my homework – I can be sinning. There is a difference between reading the bible for school, and reading it in preparation for the sermon, and reading it as part of my devotions. There is a difference between just praying at church or school, and spending time in prayer as part of my lifestyle. All three are good, and healthy. But if I focus on the first two, and the expense of the third, I’m being sinful. 

It comes back to a question of what your priorities are. A wise man once told me if we showed him how we spent our money, he would show us our priorities. 

Don’t answer this, but if God were to judge you by your finances, what would God say your priorities are? That one stings me a little too sometimes. 

What about your life. If the 168 hours you have in a week were your bank account, and the ways in which you spend your time were your checkbook, if God were to judge you based on that, what would God say your priorities are? Are you focused on God, and God’s priorities, or are you focused on your own entertainment, development, comfort, security and food? 

Another passage in scripture that talks about this is revelation 3, while you are turning there I want to talk about a man that died in a time when rome was still the world power. His name was Polycarp. He was arrested for being a believer in Jesus Christ, for sharing the Gospel, and basically for spending his life on the things that matter. He was everything you could expect from a man who tradition states was personally disciple by the apostle John. He contributed to the timing of easter – which is next week. Any way, as he approached his 90th year he heard the romans were coming for him. So he went back to his home and spent time in prayer and meditation knowing they were coming. His friends pleaded with him to flee, and hide, and run away. But he didn’t think that was what God wanted. So he stayed home and waited for them. The soldiers came, and arrested him, took him to jail, and told him that unless he was willing to burn a pinch of incense in front of a statue of the emperor he was going to be burned to death alive. 

Polycarps response was Jesus never did anything bad to me, I will not recant. When you burn me alive, there will be no need to nail me in place because the Jesus that maintains my salvation will hold me in place in the midst of your flames as well. 

Needless to say, he was burnt to death alive later that same day, true to his word, he stood in the midst of the fire and didn’t try to escape. One of his last recorded sayings was this: The fire lasts but a little while, the fires of judgment reserved for the ungodly, cannot be quenched. Polycarp concluded, "But why do you delay? Come, do what you will." The historian that wrote of Polycarps martyrdom wrote that EVERYONE knew of Polycarp and his devotion to the Lord, and that stories of his love for God and the gospel spread like wildfire through the heathen. What do you think about how he spent his life? 

Alright lets read Rev 3:15“‘I know your works: you are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were either cold or hot! 16So, because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. 17For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked. 18I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich, and white garments so that you may clothe yourself and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen, and salve to anoint your eyes, so that you may see. 

So were talking about things a little differently here. Vs 18 talks about the things that matter – Gold refined in the fire is talking about the purifying effects of persecution, white garments usually signify purity and holiness, and the ability to see. Basically he’s talking about the things that matter. This list isn’t, nor is it meant to be comprehensive. 

The main part of this passage I want to draw your attention to though is the first verse or so, I know your works: you are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were either cold or hot! 16So, because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth.

Lets say the things you do for the Lord are hot and the things you do for yourself, for the world, and for the enemy are cold water. 

IF you were to pour the water from both into a cup, what would the result be? Would the water be cold – would you have spent most of your time focused on things that don’t matter, things that don’t bring glory to God, things that are a waste of time for eternity? Or would you be hot water? Like Polycarp having devoted your life to doing what God has asked of you? 

Or would you be like most americans. Luke warm. 

These letters to the church in revelation are largely mixed in content. Each church has its own list of praises and rebukes. I think only one was given only praises. I think most churches today would be given a mixture of both. Most do some things well and other things poorly. Even our own I’m sure would have some praises and rebukes. 

If your temperature for the Lord were taken today, what would it be? Better to be hot or cold. The Luke warm God spits out. 

Only one life twill soon be past, only whats done for Christ will last. 

IF you were to die today, and found yourself standing face to face with God. What will he say to you? Well done my good and faithful servant? Would he say man, I wish you were either hot or cold. Or would he say depart from me I knew you not. 

