1 john 4

I heard a sermon by Stephen Davey on our passage this week, 1 john 4. If you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have, please open with me to 1 john 4. 

While you’re truning there I want to read to you what he wrote. He’s talking about a Greek word “Gregorew” which is where we get our modern name Gregory from, and it means “wake up” or be alert. 

The Apostle Paul will use the same word as he warns the believers living in Corinth – he writes to them, exhorting them to be on the alert . . . stand firm in the faith. . . act like men and be strong (1 Corinthians 16:13).

One of the great concerns of the Apostles was the protection of the church.  Even to a new church, the threat was ever present. 

The Apostle Paul warned the Ephesian church that they needed to be discerning so that they wouldn’t be spiritually gullible, carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, by craftiness in deceitful scheming (Ephesians 4:14).

The Apostle Paul actually lays a good deal of the responsibility of spiritual alertness and protection at the feet of the elders of the church.  He warned the elders of the church in Ephesus that as soon as he left them, false teachers would try and find a way into the assembly – he says, “I know that after my departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock.” (Acts. 20:29)

One author writes, “Many an elder fails because he is not vigilant.   He took it for granted that there were no wolves, no birds of prey, no robbers; and while he was sleeping the enemy arrived.  False ideas, destructive interpretations and false teaching came into the flock; and he never knew it – errors as fierce as wolves and pitiless as hyenas; they tear faith, hope and love to pieces and leave churches mangled and half dead. / John MacArthur, Acts (Moody Publications, 1966), p. 228

He continued: in Paul’s day and in ours, deceiving teachers don’t wear red suits with horns and a tail and carry pitchforks in their hands.

They often do many good things and present themselves as family oriented, values driven, model citizens, ever smiling who happen to be in touch with just the kind of Jesus you’d really wanna follow.

The Devil [doesn’t just] prowl around like a roaring lion (1 Peter 5:8) - the Devil also appears as an angel of light (2 Corinthians 11:14), spreading his false teaching (1 Timothy 4:1), through false ministers (2 Corinthians 11:15) and even as fallen angels masquerading as messengers of the gospel (Galatians 1:8).

If the Apostle’s had problems with counterfeit teaching in the First Century, why would we ever think we wouldn’t have all the more challenges in the 21st century?

The truth is, detecting counterfeit truth and counterfeit gospels and counterfeit spiritualities and counterfeit teachers is as great a problem for the church today, than it ever has been.

I heard about a two week training program that the American banking assoc sponsors each year to detect counterfit bills. 

Apparently in two weeks you never once handle a fake bill, you’re never once shown a fake bill, you’re never looking at a screen to see a real one vs a fake one. 

Every hour, of every day, across the entire two week program you’re handling real money. Real currency. You get to know every bit of the real thing from top to bottom, front and back, side to side, you know it better than you know your self. By the end of the two weeks – as the story goes, you can even tell if a bill is real with your eyes closed. This is how we know a lie, by knowing the truth. So that when we hear a lie its obvious to us. 

Lets read our passage: 1 john 4 1-6




I was at the grocery store this week, and ended up in a conversation with the woman in front of me, and long story short, I offered to pray, and did pray for her. While the cashier was ringing up my items, the young person behind me said “oh, so you follow Christ also”. Which triggered a conversation that was similar to what one might have with anyone in a grocery store. Things were fairly normal until he asked me something about the covenant path. Which is a weird question to ask. He temporarily lost me, while I thought about covenants in the bible, adams covenant with God, noah’s covenant, moses covenant, Abrahams covenant, etc, and in the new testament the passage about a new covenant in Jesus blood, and Paul making a covenant with his eyes, and on and on. 

I must have made a face, and he was like no, I mean have you “been baptized, confirmed, received the power of the holy spirit, and been ordained in the priesthoods of aaron and melchezidek. Which I just took to be an awkward way of asking about my testimony, so I started sharing with him. How I had been saved at a young age, and about my call into ministry, and then the pastorate. 

At which point he gave me a strange look. I think he realized then, what I wouldn’t realize for several minutes. He then mentioned he was listening while I prayed for the woman, and that I did it wrong, and God was going to send what I asked for instead of what I mean. I asked what he meant and he said the following: “Suppose you pray for rain. God hears your prayer and says 'I was going to send a heavy dew, but you only wanted rain, so you must know best, so I'm not sending dew now, and the dew would have saved the crops.' Instead you get this light rain, that won’t save anything. So, you have to pray for moisture instead, because that covers everything and let's God do what he thinks is best. Anything less is sinful. 

At that point he said he’d love to get together with me and study the bible, and talk about morality and family. Then he invited me to his chapel, on hilltop, where he’s an elder at maybe 20 at the oldest. I asked then if he was a latter day saint, and he was. This Mormon young man, thought I was a Mormon, and was surprised when I wasn’t. 

They and the jehovas witnesses appropriate so much of our language as Christians that if you’re not specifically looking for it you’ll miss it. 

You HAVE to know the truth, to detect the lie. 

Especially on things like the trinity. They make it sound like they believe in the Trinity, but when they are backed into a corner, and made to take the time to unpack what they believe they will explain that God the father is one person, god the son a second, and god the holy spirit, is a third person. Not three in one. Just three. 

But even scripture. If they say scripture maybe they mean the bible, or maybe they mean the book of Mormon, which says right on it “another testament of Jesus Christ”. Another. Its funny they chose that word, because what does the book of Galatians say? Gal 1:8But even if we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you, let him be accursed" and vs 9 says “As we have already said, so now I say again: If anybody is preaching to you a gospel other than what you accepted, let them be under God's curse!"

Another testament indeed. When you boil it down to its nuts and bolts, it’s a whole different gospel indeed. I had a family member who went to his grave truly believing Mormons were also saved. He wasn’t a Mormon, thankfully. But he believed they are saved because he lacked the discernment to be able to tell the truth from a lie. 

Its important to know the truth, so when you hear a lie you can know it. 

Alright, so our passage talks about spirits quite a bit. Do you think it means angels and demons? Ghosts? Any ideas? What does John mean by spirits here? 

I’d say it basically means the spirit of the argument. 

Right? What is the intent? Or put antoher way, don’t trust everything you hear. Put it to the test. Test its spirit. A lot of people listen to a lot of preachers on tv. Some are good, and some aren’t. When you’re watching you have got to test the spirit. 

The word test here as used by John is the same word they would use to describe the process of testing a coin for genuineness. 

Now days we take a coin, and we scrape it on a special rock, and then use three difference concentrations of acid, and whichever one dissolves the metal from the coin tells us what purity the coin is. Is it real 24 carrat gold? Or is it iron pyrite. 


Its like in the early days of our country. A quick and ready way of testing gold was by biting it. Ever seen that in the cartoons or old westerns? You’d see them bite the coin, and they’d accept it or not. Because when they bit it, if it was real, it would leave a mark, and if it was iron pyrite, it was too hard, and might chip their tooth, or something but you wouldn’t be able to leave a mark. 

So test the spirit and know. Is it gold, or fools gold. 

For instance, I was in a dollar general a year or so ago. Man walks up to me out of no where and says “I am a prophet sent by God”. I don’t know about you guys, but I’ve never had that conversation where it went anywhere biblical. So the man was off to a rough start. But I listened to him any way. He went on to say that the end is near, and the world needs to repent. – Hey I’m good with that. We need more people telling people about Jesus, I like this. But then he said because the planet Niburu is coming, and on the back side of it hangs the sickle of satan, which is coming for whitey and whiteys sympathizers to pay them back for slavery, and the historic ill treatment of black people. God says you’re to tell everyone you know to prepare as satans sickle falls and culls the white folks. Crazy. 

He lost me almost immediately after he said Niburu. 

haha. The first time I heard about Nibiru, this lady who was a teacher at a school I attended posted a video to facebook. Captioned “you too can know the day and the hour of Christ’s return”. In the video she made out as though she were a prophet, and talked about nibiru and the ending of the mayan calander, and all this type thing, you remember when the earth was supposed to end in 2012, but didn’t? right. So any way, she kept tagging me in this video she made, and I kept untagging my self. After a few times I asked her to stop, and within the day she had tagged me again. So I posted Mathew 24:36 – no man knows the day or the hour. To which she responded. “Duh. No MAN. I am NOT a man”. She unfriended me pretty fast after that. 

John isn’t suggesting you go around biting people like that woman, who wanna be your teacher or who claim to be prophets – but he does command us to examine everything about their lives and their teaching – to see – he writes in verse 1 – if they are from God.  That is, to see if what they say and how they live is something God would be willing to associate with.
In one of Tyndales commentaries on this book of the bible they give us this list as the old testament test for determining whether someone speaks on behalf of God or not:
1. Did they draw people away from God?  (Deuteronomy 13)
Did the prophet deliver man-pleasing messages, or did they deliver the message from God? (Ezekiel 13and Micah 3)
Did their moral character meet God’s standard?  False prophets were charged with lying and immorality (Jeremiah chapters 8, 14 and 23) . . . lying and immorality just seem to go together.
And probably the most obvious of all – did their prophecies come true? (Deuteronomy 18:22 – do they come to pass?)

Even one prophecy not coming to pass was grounds for stoning. 

Lets look at my friends prophecy. She said Niburu was going to hit the earth in conjunction with the end of the mayan calander. Uhm. Did that happen? I think we would have noticed. So what she said did not come true. She was a moral woman, and she drew people to God as much as she could, but her prophecy doesn’t live up to the old testament standard. Nibiru is now listed as a fantasy, a falsehood, a fiction. No one has seen it. No one can find it. Even when it supposedly was near earth a few years ago, even with millions looking for it. No one saw Nibiru. Ultimately, my friend damaged her own testimony. 

Unlike my friend, Mormons draw people away from God. They make something shiny that looks kinda like God if you are blind, and sounds like God if you don’t know your bible, and gets people to worship that stick, or rock, or lump of metal instead of the true God. 

Jehovas witnesses do the same thing. They take whats true, add to it, and give it a little twist. So the truth still feels sort of familiar, while being something wildly different. 

Because words are vessels into which we pour meaning. 

Like if I were to say hey, do you know my friend Jeff? And you were to respond, oh yeah the one from church, he’s about so high, and this color hair and eyes, and instead I’m talking about a Jeff that’s 8 feet tall, and built like a tank. Were obviously not talking about the same Jeff are we? But if neither of us clarify what happens? Confusion. People drawn away from Jesus. 

Words matter. Spirit matters. 

Warren Wiersby writes “Suppose you have a counterfeit $100 dollar bill.  You think it’s genuine and you use it to pay for a tank of gas; the gas station manager later used the bill to buy supplies.  The supplier used the bill to pay for groceries; the grocer bundled the bill up with 99 other $100 dollar bills and took it to the bank.  And the teller said, “I’m sorry, but  this particular $100 dollar bill is a counterfeit.”  Now that $100 dollar bill did a lot of good things while it was in circulation; but when it arrived at the bank and was handled by an expert – it  was exposed for what it really was.”

One day when we breath our last breath, were going to be standing face to face with God. God who knows you. Who has seen the darkest recesses of your soul. God who sent his son to die for you. 

When he gets his hands on you, will he say welcome home my good and faithful servant, or will he say depart from me I knew you not? Will he identify you as the real thing, or as a counterfit. Will you be gold or fools gold. 

You can know now. You can know by studying God’s word, and learning, and growing in your knowledge of Him. You can know because you have a relationship with him. Because you have grown to love what he loves and hate what he hates. Because you can see the marked change knowing him has made in your life. 

vs 4 says “he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. 


But all of that starts with the gospel.


