1 John Memorization.
1 John 1:1-3
That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked at and our hands have touched—this we proclaim concerning the Word of life. The life appeared; we have seen it and testify to it, and we proclaim to you the eternal life, which was 
with the Father and has appeared to us.

Day 1 (Sunday): That which was from the Beginning, which we
Day 2: have heard, which we have seen with our eyes
Day 3: which we have looked at and our hands have
Day 4: touched – this we proclaim concerning the word of Life. 
Day 5: The Life appeared; we have seen it and testify to it,
Day 6: and we proclaim to you the eternal life which was
Day 7: With the father, and has appeared to us. 
Week 2. 1 John 1:3-5a

that which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us; and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ. 4 And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete. 5 This is the message we have heard

Day 1 (Sunday): that which we have seen and heard
Day 2: we proclaim also to you, so that you too
Day 3: may have fellowship with us; and indeed	
Day 4: our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ
Day 5: And we are writing these things so  
Day 6: that our Joy may be complete.
Day 7: This is the message we have heard
Week 3. 1 John 1:5b-7a

from him and proclaim to you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. 6 If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. 7 But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another

Day 1 (Sunday): from him and proclaim to you, that 
Day 2: God is light, and in him is no darkness at all
Day 3: If we say we have fellowship with him
Day 4: while we walk in darkness, we lie and
Day 5: do not practice the truth. 7 But if we
Day 6: walk in the light, as he is in
Day 7: in the light, we have fellowship with one another
