Were going to be in 1 peter 3 this morning, if you’ve brought your bible, and I hope you have. 1 peter chapter 3. 

While youre turning there, I want to share a story one of my professors once told about a thief and a wealthy man. 

There once was a man who possessed an item that was a great treasure. Mere possession of it made him extremely wealthy. Those that knew about it, sought to steal it from him, and so he tried hard to keep it secret. One day he took off on a journey. Along the way a man joined him pretending to be a companion, but really being a theif out to steal from the wealthy man his treasure. The rich man though, was no fool, and he was wise to the thiefs true intetions, and so that night when they arrived at the Inn, the rich man let the thief bathe first. While the thief bathed, he hid his priceless treasure under the thiefs pillow. Then it was the wealthy  mans turn, and while the wealthy man bathed, the thief searched and searched trying to find the rich mans treasure but to no avail. Finally he gave up. As they parted ways the next day the wealthy man said “the treasure was closer than you thought”. 

Too often we Christians are like the theif, missing the blessing by only a little bit, looking in all the wrong places. If that thief had been where he was supposed to be he would have found the wealthy mans treasure. Its sad really, because in truth we know where to go to find blessings, to be blessed. Don’t we? Where am I talking about? Yet – don’t raise your hands – how many have read their bible every day this week? Even read your bible this week? Read your bible this month? And I don’t just mean accidently saw scripture in a meme on social media. But I mean intentionally opening God’s word for your self, and reading it. Not just while at church either. 

How many blessings do we miss out on because we refuse to look where we know the blessings are? 

Thankfully, despite our efforts, God chooses to bless us any way right?

At the risk of getting sidetracked from our passage, I wrote down a few of the blessings we find in scripture. 

Philipians 4 – My God shall supply all my needs
James 1 – Any good gift we get is from God, and God doesn’t change, 
Luke – Give and God gives back. 
Numbers 6 – God’s peace. 
God will be with you, encourage you, uphold you, good health, Peace with your enemies, peace with God, peace in your heart. God will work in you, god will work through you, comfort when we mourn, 

Finally ephesians 1:3 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, 4 even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love 5 he predestined us[b] for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will,

The ONLY true blessings come to those who are in christ. Without Christ you aren’t blessed. I hear peoples objections out there “it rains on the just and the unjust”. Good and bad things happen to good and bad people, yes. But, what kind of blessings are the blessings that matter? 

In the scope of eternity, will times of money being tight really matter? In scope of eternity, will the car you drive right now make a difference? In the scope of eternity, will it matter what house you had? In what neighborhood? In the scope of eternity will any material thing here on earth matter? Because this life is short. Who wouldn’t endure difficulty for a time, if they could know that one day soon things will be different and better. 

Who couldn’t endure a drought, knowing that in the Lord’s timing a wonderful refreshing rain is coming in the morning. 

Its like that for us. Today it’s a drought, but soon enough, we will be in the glorious rain. 

In the mean time lets read our passage. 1 peter 3 starting in vs 8. 

I think this first section could be called the blessing of Christ like living. This is a partial rendering of a list that Paul gave us in Romans, that also includes submission to authorities even ones we disagree with. But here Peter wrote “unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, tender heart, humble mind, turning the other cheek, bless those that hurt you. 

Bear in mind, who was the emperor of rome when this was written? Nero. 

I don’t know what its like to live in a time and place where Christians were being impaled on poles, dipped in oil, and lit on fire to light the streets of rome, I just don’t. I’m thankful for that. But I can imagine it would be painful. Imagine that happened today. After church, you swing by the gas station perhaps, and maybe we see Dottie lit on fire on a pole. Its completely foreign to our experience and yet that was what the early church would experience under Nero. I can imagine that could make people hard hearted. Lesser things can cause that in us today. We let our surroundings get us down. Problems with our house. Problems with our car. Problems with our kids, or spouse. Things that make us feel a little bit like were in the midst of a drought. We run around looking for things that will make us feel better today. Some people get messed up in drugs, some people get messed up in alcohol. Some people buy a new and bigger house. Some people buy a new car. That’s kind of a standard one for guys in their middle ages. Go out and buy a new car to relive something from their younger years, or to live out their younger dreams… To get to experience something they think they missed out on. Some people get up set by these things and let them eat at them. For others its their health. Health is a big deal, no one wants to be sick, or to feel parts of their body wear out. No one wants to – I have neuropathy in one of my feet from an accident involving a sheep – I don’t want that. I don’t enjoy feeling unstable on a ladder. I don’t enjoy stubbing my toe, and not even knowing I have damaged it because that part of my foot feels nothing. I don’t like that. But I don’t let it eat at me either. Because while my foot has a drought today, there is rain coming soon in eternity. This old body, it gets replaced. I get to leave it behind one day. We don’t carry these old broken down tents with us into eternity. We just have to deal with them while we are here. As a diabetic, I have to take my medicine, because my body has broken that way. We all have to take the medicine our bodies need to keep limping along while we are here. 

But one day that will be a distant memory. So don’t let things like that discourage you. Have no fear of them or be troubled by them, but in your hearts Honor Christ the Lord. 

Lets hit a few of the other important words in this first section. Live in Unity for instance. This is being like minded with other believers. We don’t have to agree on every minor point of doctrine in the bible in order to be one in unity. I’ve always felt like as long as I can agree with someone on the gospel, then I can for my part, work with them. 

Sympathy was another action – in English it means to suffer with. In Greek its calling for deeper intimacy between Christians. To share the feelings of another. We share the joy, and the struggles of each other. Brotherly love was the third. This is a description of Christian fellowship. Brotherly love is directed at other Christians. Its not directed towards the world in general. Or they would have just called it fellowship, or love. Brotherly love specifically targets other believers. The church should be a family, but more so. It should be brotherhood. 

Next is tender hearted. I had to study this word in college. The Greek root word is splonknon and refers to the part of the body they believed at the time contained all of the emotions of a person. We say heart, but they said – does anyone know? Its been a while since we’ve talked about this. But its intestines. Tender intestines . The gospels are full of that kind of phrasing. Sometimes translated as compassion. Jesus was moved with compassion. Jesus was compelled into action by our brokenness, by our need. So we should be moved to help those around us in need. 

The term is also used in Ephesians 4:32: “Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you.” Sometimes the need is forgiveness. 

Finally is humble minded. 

It takes humility to offer help without thinking you are better than, it takes humility to receive help without thinking you are less than. And just when you think you have humility figured out, you’re being prideful, and need to begin again. It’s a tough one! Scripture says Philippians 2:3-4 says, “Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.” Or – be humble. 

All of these together could be said to be a command to live in holiness. Vs 8 would be living in holiness towards the church, and vs 9 is living in holiness towards others. Don’t repay evil for evil. Or reviling for reviling, instead bless them. For to this you were called. That you may obtain a blessing. 

I’ll tell you that’s a hard place to be. I had some neighbors that were intentional and systematic about doing things to harm me. Consistently and over time they attacked me almost every day. For years and years it continued. The desire to strike back crossed my mind a number of times, and would flippantly come out of my mouth with my friends. Nothing I followed through on, but still in hindsight I was closer to doing wrong here than I liked. A Puritan wrote, “To return good for evil is God-like; to return good for good is man-like; to return evil for evil is beast-like; to return evil for good is devil-like.” Who are you like? It reminds me of the quote “an eye for an eye and the whole world goes blind. OR the MLK quote, darkness can’t drive out darkness, only light can do that. 

We are commanded to be like Christ on the oath to Golgatha. 

We are commanded to bless people like my neighbors who returned evil for good. But in doing so we are going to be blessed. 

Vs 10 starts talking about that a bit. Whoever desires to love life and see good days let him keep his tongue from evil. And his lips from speakin deceit. Let him turn from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and persue it. For the eyes of the lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the lord is against those who do evil. 

The same prof from earlier said “The good life begins with good speech. James 1:26 says, “If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person’s religion is worthless.” You are not godly if you cannot control your tongue. 
Verse 10 says, “Keep your tongue.” “Keep” is a forceful term that means to cease and desist. It is spiritual warfare against sinful words. We cannot win this battle alone. Pray Psalm 141:3: “Set a guard, O Lord, over my mouth; keep watch over the door of my lips.” We need God’s help to know when to be quiet. We also need God’s help to keep our tongues from evil. Verse 8 speaks of evil acts. Verse 10 speaks of evil words. We must wage war against both. But there is another battle to fight. Verse 10 says to keep your “lips from speaking deceit.” 
Evil is slanderous speech. 
Deceit is subversive speech. 
1 Peter 2:22 says, “He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth.” To be like Jesus, we must keep our lips from speaking deceit. 
He continues: Verse 12 is about what God does: “For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.” 
The Lord’s posture toward the righteous. Verse 12 says, “For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous.” This is an anthropomorphism. God is omniscient. He sees everything. Yet his eyes are on the righteous. The Lord watches over those who trust and obey him. Verse 12 says, “And his ears are attentive to their prayers.” The God who has eyes has ears, which are attentive to the prayers of the righteous. It is the picture of our heavenly Father leaning over to hear the faintest cry of his children. 
Nothing is too small for God to care about. 
Nothing is too big for God to handle. 
If this is the Lord’s posture, what an insult prayerless is to God. 
The Lord’s posture toward those who do evil. Verse 12 says, “But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.” This is the third reference to the anatomy of God. The face of God is the favor of God. Numbers 6:26 says, “The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace.” It means the Lord looks upon you with divine favor. The opposite is for the to turn his face against you. This is the Lord’s posture toward those who do evil. 
Verse 12 is the fifth mention of evil in this passage. It refers to the words or actions of believers and unbelievers. If you do not know Christ, the Lord’s face is against you. But if you profess faith in Christ but live your way, the Lord’s face is against you. Peter ends his quote without including the second clause of Psalm 34:16: “to cut off the memory of them from the earth.” Because of the finished work of Christ, your failure is not final! You can begin again. 
Run to the cross. 
Follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. 
Trust God’s eyes, ears, and face. 
Gospel.

Communion. 