A friend of mine has a few kids, and he recently was asked to be the coach of the basketball team that one of his sons played for. He said the first night was a struggle. They had to decide on an identity. He took a poll, and the top three choices were the tigers, the senators, and the basketball team. He was kind of hoping for the tigers, and he would have been ok with the senators, but the team really really wanted “the basketball team”. So he relented and now they are “the Washington basketball team. That Is their identity, and their rallying cry as they go forward now. When you have a team its important to be about that team, and not some other team. I remember when I was a kid I was on this one soccer team called “united”. We were a pretty good team, my friend from school was the goalie, and he and I worked really well together. I was on defense, and we were hard to get around. Any way, this one particular game, the team we were facing, and I’ve forgotten the name, I just remember their jerseys were hot pink. Any way, we were doing really good. They weren’t even really getting to our side of the field. We were up by like 6 points, and that was when it happened. Our forward had the ball, and he was running towards the goal, and this one kid masterfully slipped in and stole the ball. He dodged and dodged and dodged our players, and by the time he had reaching the middle part of their half of the field, he had lost all of our players, he was fast. 

He pause, and in the heat of the moment, he wound up and kicked that ball as hard as he could, and scored a goal, on his own team. Soccer teams usually only have 11 players, but in that moment, United had a 12th player supporting our team, and our goals, and ultimately gave us our 7th point. We went on to win that game 8 to 0. The kid that stole the ball was pulled out of the game by his coach at that point, and likely got a stern talking to. He was put back in the game, but he only scored the one goal, and it was for the team opposing him. 

My friend continued his story saying that one of his players thought the name was really stupid, and so he refused to wear the jersey. My friend, his coach said if you don’t wear the jersey you can’t play any of the games, and will only be riding the bench. If you don’t like the jersey, you might want to consider quitting the team. Apparently that kid came to every game and practice any way, and over the course of the whole season wouldn’t wear the jersey and so he didn’t get to play in any of the games. The parents came up to the coach at one point, and asked why their son wasn’t being allowed to play – sure he’s not the best at scoring, and he’s kind of short. He may not be the fastest kid, or the strongest kid, and he can’t shoot from the 3pt line to save his life. But he comes to every game, and ever practice, why can’t he play? Hasn’t he proven himself? And my friend said to the parents – its true that he can’t throw or block, or score, he’s the shortest kid on the team, and the slowest. And its true that he does come to every game and every practice, and him coming to every game and every practice would be enough to put him in to play, but he refuses to wear the jersey. 

Folks, when you’re on a team, its important to wear the jersey. Who and whose we are affects every facet of our life. Not only who we are, but it should also affect our thinking as well, how we think about the things that we do and say, and others do or say. I’d even go so far as to say our struggles mostly come back to forgetting which team we are on. 

Lets read. 1 peter 1:1-3

Our team name is right there in the first verse, “elect exiles”. I read a story this week about a basketball player, he was highly sought after but for a variety of non basketball reasons, he ended up playing for a team in charolotte north Carolina. This team is the losingest team in basketball. They had the worst offense in the league, and the worst defense. Hard to come back from that, year after year they lost every game. But this guy chose that team. Things got so bad the team decided to change names, thinking that might help, but they continued to be the worst in basically every metric – this team was so bad they don’t even have any players that made it to the hall of fame. A few years go by and someone notices this guy, and offers him a really great contract to go and play for the Celtics. He went from the worst team in the league, to the team that year that had the best offense, the best defense. He went from a team with no players in the hall of fame, to playing in the championship game while hall of famers watched from the stands. He’s good enough some people say he will be in the hall of fame one day. All it took was a change of teams. 

Our team name is elect exiles. I think I like that better than “the basketball team”. But lets unpack that a bit. A lot of people bristle at the word elect, but its right here in scripture, and it applies to us, so we should understand what it means a little bit right? 

So who can tell me what “elect” means? 

The premier Greek to English dictionary “A Greek-english lexicon of the new testament and other early Christian literature” says the Greek word “eklektos means “chosen, elect, picked out, selected, made excellent”. 

Lidell and Scott in their Greek English lexicon translate the same word “picked out, selected”, Louw-Nida says “chosen”. In Milligan’s vocabulary of the Greek new testament, he translates the word Choice or chosen, and to become beautiful. NASB Translates it as “resident aliens”, the newer NIV translates that word as Elect Exiles, the older NIV translates it as God’s elect, strangers in the world. The king james version is missing words at this point. It leaves the Greek word Eklektos out all together. So if you’re reading from that translation, its week here, and instead simply says strangers. I have a Greek new testament on my laptop, and I can show you in the Greek where that word should be. But isn’t there in the king james. Its either a poor translation choice, or more likely a result of having access to fewer manuscripts of less quality at the time of translation. 

Point is the bible, in the Greek, and in maybe 30 different bible translations says “elect” right there. Elect meaning chosen of God, and I loved “made beautiful” or “made excellent”. Or simply chosen. 

These are people that God has chosen to himself. Or John 6:44 which says “No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day”. 

These are the people drawn by God to Jesus. They are the elect. We The elect gentiles are who Romans 9 talks about when it says “if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, 23 in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory— 24 even us whom he has called, not from the Jews only but also from the Gentiles? 25 As indeed he says in Hosea,
“Those who were not my people I will call ‘my people,’
    and her who was not beloved I will call ‘beloved.’”

This is scripture quoting scripture here, it’s a quote from Hosea 1, and in Hosea 1, God tells hosea to marry a prostitute, and that his children will be named, about to be punished, not my people, and no mercy. 

This is a glorious promise for us as gentiles. You know of course there are three groups of people in scripture, the Jews, - Gods people, the gentiles – not god’s people, and those in between were called Samaritans.  In short whats being said is that God has chosen people that are not Jews to be a part of the promise also, the new covenant consummated in the death of Christ. IN fact if you read the new testament, you’ll see there is a pentacost for the Jews, one for the gentiles, and one for the Samaritans. No longer is God only pulling for the Jews, he’s expanded that to include us. We can all be on the same team now. But still, it blows my mind to think about this – that we who rejected God, and chose sin, and in doing so shattered creation. That we who rejected his son, and killed him by crucifixion – one of the most grizly and shameful forms of execution one can edure, should still want anything to do with us after. You might say it wasn’t me, I wasn’t there. I didn’t have anything to do with Christ’s execution. People, if you have ever committed a sin, Christ died for that sin. If we as a people had never sinned, than we as a people wouldn’t be guilty of Christ death. But we have as a people, and we have individually, and that sin required Christ’s death. We are guilty. Yet in spite of that guilt, God chased us down, and overcame us, and drew us to his son, so that we could be God’s Children. 

I think if someone murdered my child, I’d be hard pressed to sit in the same room with the murderer, and yet God persued us, and called us, and made us his children. What a wonderful, marvelous God we serve. 

The second word was exiles. Some of the translations – like the NASB – says resident aliens. We are here, but this world isn’t our home. Were just passing through. 

Our citizenship is in heaven, and God brings us onto the new team. Were no longer playing for the losing team, As believers in Christ, now we play for the winning team. Were no longer bound for an eternity in Hell. We can spend an eternity in heaven. And yet we are not yet in heaven are we. We are here, on earth, in a form of exile. We are strangers in a foreign land. Were living here, but this is not our home. This is like living in a hotel for a while – like we area on vacation in a hostile country. Imagine going to bed one night, and waking up in north korea – a land hostile to americans, a land where we don’t speak the language, or understand the culture. That’s not too dissimilar from what this world is to the Christian. These people that Paul was writing to were citizens of the Roman Empire. The dominant world power, and yet he calls the exiles. Because even though they were Romans, their citizenship is no longer of earth, their citizenship is of heaven. That’s Paul’s point – even though you were born and raised here, this is not your home. you have a different homeland, a higher homeland, you’re foreigners here, and your home is heaven. 

I love vs 2 of 1 peter. Elect according to God’s foreknowledge. He knew you, he knew what part you would play in the world, however big or small, and he knew what sins you would commit. He knew what good you would do, and what bad you  would do. And he chose to love you any way. In love he adopted us as sons and daughters. In love he chose to allow his son to die for us. In love he made us alive in Christ. A puritan Thomas Watson said it this way: Satan wanted Christ to prove his diety this way; by turning rocks into bread, but Jesus has worked a far greater miracle by turning hard hearts of stone into flesh. In repentance Christ turns a heart of stone to flesh. 

1 john 2:15 says: Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.

With all that God has done for us. Even in spite of our sin, and our guilt and shame in the death of Christ, those that love the world are like that boy who wouldn’t wear the jersey. When you choose to live for this world, to live for the flesh, and the pleasures of this world, its like the boy who wouldn’t wear the jersey. Its like you’re saying, yeah, God, I know your son died for me, but I don’t need it. I don’t want it. I’d rather be something and someone else. It’s a form of spitting in the eye of God. 

I doubt any one here or whose watching with us online would intentionally look Good in the eye, and spit in his face, and yet through our actions, sometimes that’s exactly what we do. 

Like that boy from the hot pink soccer team, that scored a goal on his own team. He sort of spit in the eye of his team. I don’t think he meant to, but the net result of his actions were bad for his team, and good for his enemy. 

It would be like the basketball player that I was telling you about, it would be like him going back to the charlotte losing team on purpose after getting the good paying job with the Celtics, after having good team mates on the Celtics, after winning the season with the Celtics, it would be like showing up to the Celtics vs charlotte game, and putting on the charlotte jersey and playing like he’s on the charlotte team. 

It would be ridiculous. But that’s exactly what we do when we sin as Christians. 

In this analogy there are only two teams. 

Which team do you play for? Cpnsider your actions, do you play for God’s team? Or for the team of his enemy? 

Gospel. 