Developing a theology of weakness

First of all, I have to say this is an unusual Christmas message, but I think you’ll see by the end that it makes sense. Today we are going to be talking about developing a theology of weakness. We all have areas of weakness do we not? I don’t know about any of you, but I’m not going to be winning any triathlons in the near future. But I don’t just mean physical weakness. You know what I mean? There are areas where we just fall short. Short of what God wants, short of what we expect of ourselves. We just don’t measure up. Do we? 

Ive been reading a book about this by a man named J.I. Packer. He’s a Canadian professor and an Anglican. In fact a number of years ago when the US and Canadian Anglican churches began to pull away from scripture, to change their view of its integrity, and as a consequence their view of who God is, Packer was one of the loudest voices calling the church back to God. 

Ultimately after a five year battle Packer left the Anglican church of Canada, along with his congregation, and they joined the Anglican church of argentina (without physically leaving Canada). 

He says it felt like defeat. Like losing something good and whole that has been together for centuries, and on his watch it broke. It took a while for him to come to grips with all of this, and in the wake of “his” defeat, he wrote this book about how God works through Brokenness, its called “weakness is the way”, which is very polite Canadian for “Sometimes God wants us broken. 

I have a friend that frequently asks me “why is God letting this or that happen”. Why did I lose my son, or why did this person or that person have to die. Why is God allowing me to crash into the financial rocks? There are all natural questions. I don’t think there is an easy answer here, but I think were going to touch on it a bit as we look at 2 cor 12 as we scratch the surface on developing a theology of brokenness. 

While you’re turning there, It strikes me that as americans we have this idea that comfort is good. That security is good. That prosperity is good. That freedom is good. We hold these ideals up, and persue them hard – don’t we? In our declaration of independence we declare as our inalienable rights life liberty and the pursuit of happiness.  We hold these things up as the paradigm, as the lens through which we view the world. You’ve heard of rose colored glasses? As americans our lenses are colored by the right to persue comfort, wealth, and security. Our own happiness is the tint on our lenses. 

This is at the heart of almost all of the problems in our country today. People have begun to acknowledge the quote unquote right for homosexuals to marry. They base this argument on the homosexuals “right” to happiness. I’ve heard some of my cousins say “let them love who they love, what does it harm?”. The argument for abortion is similar – if its too hard for the mother, let her abort that baby. What kind of life, or what amount of happiness would that child have if the mother doesn’t want it?”. The mother thinks it would affect her happiness, the world thinks it would affect the babies chance at happiness. We worship happiness. 

If the government could give me a little more health insurance, then I could be happy. If the government could just build a wall and offer me a little more security then I’d be happy. Hope I didn’t just smash anyone’s sacred cow there – but in the extreme its just as true. How can we be happy, if we haven’t provided for our own security? How can our kids be happy if we haven’t provided for their security, their health care, their financial future. Often times our goal for our kids is that they have a better life than we did. What’s at the heart of that? Happiness. We see areas where we could have been happier, and try to make sure the kids are happy in those areas do we not? We worship the misguided desires of our evil hearts on the worship alter that belongs to God. 

When I was a kid, I really didn’t like medicine. I took it, and I don’t remember complaining much. Taking your medicine when you are sick was an inevitability in my house growing up. My parents loved me. They wanted me to get better, and so they made sure I took the full course of medicine the doctor prescribed. 

Folks I hate to tell you this, but when you worship your own happiness, the medicine is brokenness. You may not even be worse on this point than your neighbor. You might be better at this than the person sitting next to you in the pew, or up here in the pulpit. But as americans its almost hard wired into us to be this way, to idolize our own happiness. To put our happiness as the center of our worship so much so that these thing happen even in the church. If you have even one drop too much – and I’d hazard to guess that as a people americans each have an ocean too much of this – if there is even one drop too much, God’s going to allow you to go through things that will slowly burn that idol away. 

This is what Paul said, are you with me in 2 corinthians 12? :7-10

The first thing I want you to notice is that word conceited. I looked up the greek word there, and in the Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament based on Semantic Domains, one of the better greek to English dictionaries that exist, it says the greek word that means to be inflated with a sense of ones own importance. Doesn’t that sound a little bit like what we’ve been talking about? If we are consumed with a desire to persue happiness at the expense of God, aren’t we prioritizing our self above God? Aren’t we prioritizing ourself? Aren’t we in our own minds at that point elevating or inflating our sense of our own importance? 

So we can see the problem. 

How did this play out in Pauls life? Paul says he had a thorn in his side. We don’t know exactly what it was. But he had an area where he was weak. Sound familiar? 

I have those too. My first semester at Trinity Bible college. I was 17, I didn’t know any better, so when the school suggested – when Laura Blick suggested I take 15 credit hours, which is five classes, one of which being a third year greek class, I just went along with what she had to say. 

I didn’t realize that along side 15 hours of class time came 45 hours each week of expected homework. For every hour I’d spend in class, they expected and assigned three hours each week of homework. Of reading. Of Writing. Two of my classes were bible classes. The third a counseling class, a greek class, and then one night a week I had to drive back to campus for a 3 hour once a week class that started right after dinner. The bible classes I love, and the history professor was one of my favorites. I enjoyed the counselling class too but that greek class was a struggle. We had to memorize dozens of new words each week. Each new quiz could pull from any of the words learned to that point. We had to memorize hundreds of case endings. Like how we have ed or s at the end of words, and the presence of that ending affects whether the thing is happening now, has happened or will happened once, or more than once. In greek there are hundreds of these that affect the tense, voice and mood of a word. Hundreds. In greek sometimes the letters are added at the end, and sometimes the letters are added at throughout the word – the Eimi paradigm for instance was especially difficult. Some words you end up with only two or three letters of the original word being present, and the rest were dramatically different. Any way it was a tough semester. I never felt like I had studied enough, so I was studying in my counseling class for greek also, and I ended up failing both. Till that point I had never failed at anything. Failing two classes cost me thousands of dollars, I had to re-take the classes. It slowed down the graduation process. It started me out with a really bad GPA. All things that would be the source of struggles for years to come. I had a thorn, in my side. 

Paul had a thorn in his. We could likely all point to a thorn, that God has allowed to be in our side. 

Don’t let your insufficiency discourage you. Don’t let it get you down that you aren’t good enough, because none of us are good enough. If we were good enough, than Jesus wouldn’t have had to come. We are all failure, we are all broken. We all fall short. The best we can do is ashes. The prophet Isaiah wrote: that one day God would exchange our ashes for something beautiful. 

Before we go further with that, what are ashes symbolic of in the bible? Does anyone know? When do biblical people bring the ashes out? Its symbolic of mourning isn’t it. A bone deep mourning. I think its safe to say that those of us who have been Christians for a while have felt that bone deep mourning. Maybe its when you revisit your pet sin that you know God hates. Or when you drop the ball in sharing the gospel with someone. I’ve felt that way before. You know what I mean? 

I feel like in a very real way, the things we are allowed to go through in life are designed to grind us down to the point where we are usefull to God. Have you ever seen the process grain goes through as its being milled? I saw a video this week of buckwheat being milled to flour. Buckwheat in its natural state is hard as a stone. It pretty much useless in its natural state. Even if you intend on planting it, the seed has to die before a plant can spring forth. You can eat it like rice, but even then, you’re exposing it to fire and boiling water for a half hour or more to make it soft enough to eat. But my favorite is milling. My grandma used to make really great buckwheat pancakes, and in order for there to be pancakes there has to be milling. Good buckwheat panckaes are a beautiful thing, but buckwheat in its natural state is useless. 

So to mill buckwheat to make pancakes, you dump the grain whole into a hopper 50 or 100lbs at a time. Or more for a big mill. A mechanism moves the grains a short distance, until they reach the place where the magic happens. Where the hard stone of the buckwheat is turned into the useful flour. What happens is two great big heavy stones on a motor are spun in opposite directions, and the little buckwheat grain, the little buckwheat rock is caught between the two and shattered into flour. 
I think that is a picture of what Pauls talking about. 
The human apart from Christ, or in its natural state is next to useless. Were hard little rocks. But in following Christ we are transformed into a thing of far more beauty. In our analogy after being pulverized, and crushed, and mixed with sugar, and seared on a hot pan we become something beautiful. We become pancakes. 

Beauty for ashes. I think that’s a fair trade. There are parts of it that are hard. But God has given us promises hasn’t he? Our passage tonight gives us one – God says vs 9 “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness”. 

When we are hungry, it gives God an opportunity to provide food – he promises he will provide all our needs.

When we are unhappy, it gives God the opportunity to be the source of our happiness. 

When we are lonely – and we shouldn’t be lonely – we are a group of people that has become like family – but if we find ourselves lonely, it gives God a chance  to help us find belonging, and acceptance and fellowship with him. 

In every area we are in sufficient its ok because God is sufficient. 

Don’t let that lull you into apathy, keep pushing forwards.

But When we are week it just means God’s at work. He is refining and improving us.God’s just making pancakes. Making beauty from ashes. Substituting his strength for our weakness. 

I know this isn’t a typical picture of Christmas, but it still fits. 

It was our weakness that caused the fall. Adam and eve sinned, imputing sin to everyone that would ever be thereafter. 
It was our weakness that caused us to be unable to keep the law after the fall. The law that would have covered our sin. 
And so because of our weakness, God sent his son Jesus to make up the difference. We deserved death. But Jesus took that death – beauty from ashes. 

But even that wasn’t the end was it? Because we know from history, and from scripture that there were more than 500 witnesses that saw Christ after he rose from the dead. Nothing is more ashes than death, and nothing more beautiful than Christ dying for us, and Christ rising again. Greater love has no man than this, he that would lay down his life for a friend. Yet we weren’t even friends at that point. We were not even born, and for a period of time in our lives most of us were hostile towards God. And yet he chose to die for us any way. Beauty from Ashes. 



But it all starts with a relationship with jesus. If you were to die today, and don’t know what would happen next, come talk to me. If you’re interested in joining the church, come talk to me. 
 