Were going to be in the last chapter of 2nd Kings this week. 2nd Kings ch 25. But before you turn there, open your bibles to the new testament, the book of John, ch 6. 

We have been talking about obedience, vs disobedience. Worshipping God vs worshipping idols, and in the midst of all this I saw a video by a popular preacher, a young preacher, a Baptist preacher, a graduate of a good Baptist school, that said God can’t over-ride unbelief. Not that he WOULD Not, that he COULD NOT. Which I find striking. It took God 6 days to speak into existence an existence that has taken the rest of us thousands of years to try and understand and yet we’ve only explored 5% of the worlds oceans, and 1% of the sea floor. We have spent billions of man hours studying science and yet we still don’t fully know why molecules stick together, or understand fully mechanics at the quantum level. How can a single atom be both positive and negatively charged until we catch it? Despite our best efforts we have way more questions than answers. Way more mysteries unsolved, and every mystery we solve reveals a ton more. Einstein famously was searching for his theory for everything, and yet one of the smartest men to ever have lived, whose math unlocked the power of the bomb that is capable of destroying the world, couldn’t come up with a solution. When we only rely on ourselves we end up with problems. I think the preacher I mentioned before may have mis spoken, he may have meant wouldn’t. that’s a point I’d argue. But what he said was “couldn’t”, what he said was God can’t over ride mans free will. There are a bunch of times when God did just that in scripture. Can any of you think of a time? Pharaoh. How about Lydia? Remember Lydia? I came across a list of verses where God talks about our will and his effect on it. Look with me first at John 6

44 “No one can come to Me, unless the Father who sent Me draws him; and I will raise him up on the last day (John 6:44). 
65 And He was saying, “For this reason I have said to you, that no one can come to Me, unless it has been granted him from the Father” (John 6:65). 
48 And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord; and as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed (Acts 13:48). 
14 And a certain woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple fabrics, a worshiper of God, was listening; and the Lord opened her heart to respond to the things spoken by Paul (Acts 16:14).
34 For WHO HAS KNOWN THE MIND OF THE LORD OR WHO BECAME HIS COUNSELOR? 35 Or WHO HAS FIRST GIVEN TO HIM THAT IT MIGHT BE PAID BACK TO HIM AGAIN? 36 For from Him and through Him and to Him are all things. To Him be the glory forever. Amen (Romans 11:34-36). 
30 But by His doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and redemption, 31 that, just as it is written, “LET HIM WHO BOASTS, BOAST IN THE LORD” (1 Corinthians 1:30-31). 
6 For I am confident of this very thing, that He who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus (Philippians 1:6). 
5 He saved us, not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness, but according to His mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit (Titus 3:5). 
2 Fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfector of faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God (Hebrews 12:2). 
2nd Kings ch 25:1-12

So you might be saying that’s a weird passage pastor, to pick for a Sunday morning. It is kind of weird, a King of Israel slain, the temple destroyed, hope lost, the only people that remained were the most destitute and they were ordered to maintain the vineyards. 

This destruction of the temple would have been especially important to the jews of the day. It had become the focal point of Israelite culture. You needed a job? You’d go to the temple. You wanted the news of the day? It could be found at the temple. It was the absolute center, the focal point of daily life in Israel. The closest analog I can think of to this would be a muslim Mosque. They offer continuing education type classes, social connections, political connections, news, jobs, deals for other muslims. It’s the epicenter of muslim life. A jews life revolved around the temple more than our life revolves around the local church. So when the temple was torn up, it was like losing a large piece of their identity. It was devastating to the surviving jews. A good word for you to know at this point is diaspora. The jews that were scattered here (and its used again of the Christians scattered in acts) are called the diaspora. It just means the scattered ones. Or you could call it the remnant. 

Do you remember the story of Shadrach Meshack and Abednego? They would have been about 10-12 here and taken captive alongside Daniel. 

For the Jew living in Israel it would have been like an American living in pearl harbor, or like living in Japan when we dropped the bomb. It left an indelible mark on their collective sense of identity.  

But it all could have been avoided. At this point in israels history Jeremiah was a prophet, and he received a warning from God. A warning that he took straight to the king. This is all in Jeremiah 38 – you should read this later. Jeremiah tells the king look – God says surrender and our most important cultural treasure will be spared, not to mention all the lives that could be lost. Not to mention the kings own life. But the king thought he knew better than God, and better than Jeremiah so he did his own thing. 

How Risky is that? It strikes me that the world upholds the heart of mankind as one of the chief earthly authorities. Have you ever seen a Disney movie that didn’t have one of the people in the movie say “trust your heart”? Terrible advice. Jeremiah may have been thinking of King Zedekiah here when he says “17:9 The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked: who can know it?”. If the heart is deceitful above all things, and we cant trust it, then why do we tell our kids that? Any way. King Zed trusted his heart instead of God, and the result was devastating. All of his kids were killed. He ends up dying in captivity at the hands of the enemy of his country. 

I cant help but notice some parallels here. Think back on your own life, when you depended on you for answers and direction. Dad think about that. When you were young, and you looked to what your heart wanted for guidance, where did you end up? What path did that set you on? Were you living for the Lord?  Certainly not! The same is true of all of us. When we trust our heart for direction, our heart that Jeremiah says is “9  deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked”, we all end up going down some dark paths. Kurt ended up in the motocycle club, Kenny Duffield ended up becoming an alcoholic. Drugs, sex, lying, and anything else that seems good is the end result of trusting our hearts. Don’t trust your heart, Trust God! The end result of trusting your heart is death. Sometimes a physical death, but worse is the eternity you could spend apart from God. Your body dying is over in a minute or two, but eternity in Hell is much much worse! 

Over in over in scripture this principle is made clear. Proverbs says “He who trusts in his own heart is a fool, But he who walks wisely will be delivered”. 

So we find our selves at a crossroads, like King Zed found himself at a cross roads. He had been told by God the path he was on could only lead to death, his and his families. He was told there was another way. I’m sure jeremiah told him not to trust his heart! We know Jeremiahs feelings on the heart. In fact you and I know what the bible says about our hearts. He knew, and we know that our hearts lead us to trouble just like the lead adam and eve to trouble. The best of our earthly wisdom is far far short of God’s wisdom. The ebst of our knowledge falls far far short of God’s knowledge. The best of our righteousness is as filthy rags. But we like Zed are at a cross roads before Christ. We can either follow our own wants and desires, and end up having a life filled with our own attempts to satisfy ourselves and an eternity of drinking deep the wrath of God, OR we can choose to set aside our desires, our wisdom, the things our heart desires right now, and choose to follow Christ, and have an eternity of being fully satisified in our lord Jesus Christ. 

I don’t know about you, but for me that’s an easy choice. The famous philosopher Pascal wrote in his book Penses to an imagined atheist – if I am wrong, and you are right, I’ve lived a good life, helped other people, generally left the world a better place. But if You are wrong, and I am right, you’ll spend an eternity separate from God in crucible of his wrath. 

That all starts with the Gospel. That all starts with listening to God, over your own sinful heart. Because when we listen to our heart we end up making mistakes – sometimes that means we say silly things like Mr. Furtick. Other times it means rejecting Christ one time too many, and ending up in Hell. 

As the praise team comes, be thinking about your own life. Are you a believer in Christ? If not YOU are at that same crossroads today. Ahead lies doom or salvation. Which way will you choose? 


