Welcome all the visitors, thank them for coming. 

Were going to be in galatians 3 starting in vs 23 today. 

While you’re turning there, I want to sort of give you an outline of what were going to talk about today. 

First is the Law, then were going to talk about what supplanted the law, and that is faith, and because of that we can become children of God. All who are children of God are of one family. Were in the process of changing our sign – its going to say Taking Strangers, Making Family. I think this better reflects our mission in our community. We want to take strangers, and help them become part of the family. Part of the church family, but more importantly part of the family of God. 

Looks like some of you are still turning so I’ll tell you a story about adoption. 

There was a girl that I know of, that lived in another state far from here. Her mom was mentally ill, so she ended up being sent into the foster care system. She ended up at this seemingly nice little farm. But the shine of the place soon wore off. It was winter, and their new foster parent would lock the kids outside and make them sleep in the chicken coop. 

I know some of you have chickens. Can you imagine what that would be like? Chicken coops are frequently gross places – this one definitely was. It wasn’t huge, so you couldn’t walk around without stepping in chicken waste. Now imagine sitting out in the freezing weather, in excrement, unable to go inside into the warmth and comfort of your own bed. There were lots of other things, but I think that’s a good start no? I think we can gather from just that little bit of story that things were really bad for this little girl. Several years go by, and a family decides they want to adopt her. A family in florida. They had always wanted children, but for one reason or another had a really hard time conceiving. They were pretty excited about bringing home this now teenaged girl. Things weren’t perfect, but she wasn’t beaten, or locked in chicken coops. For that little girl the new adoptive parents had improved her life a lot. She hadn’t done anything to deserve their favor. She hadn’t been able to earn their adoption. But they choose her any way. Made her part of the family. Bought her clothes, gave her shelter, good food, and a comfy bed. 

It struck me this week just how much the adoption of a child mirrors what God through Christ has done for us. 

Alright lets read Galatians 3, and then we will talk about the law. 

Weird laws are everywhere, and we don’t really have to fully understand them to be subject to them right? Ignorance of the law, is not an excuse. I’m sorry officer I didn’t know I was speeding, well tought! You were here is your ticket, have a nice day. Right?. I read an article that talked about weird laws around the world and I just want to share a few of those with you. Most of you know I spent some time in the UK a while back, as it happens, in the UK according to a law passed in 1986, it is against the law to hold a salmon suspiciously. 

In Singapore chewing gum is against the Law, and in Denmark you are not allowed to name your baby anything weird. They took this so seriously that they published a list of guidelines, and give out booklets with the 7000 approved names in them. Hi welcome to Denmark, here is a list of things you can call your baby. Weird no? 

In Mexico you can ride your bicycle with no hands as much as you want, but if your foot leaves the pedal its jail time for reckless driving. 

If you ever find your self in Ontario, you’ll want to make sure you stay quiet. Because its against the law to yell, shout, whistle or sing anywhere at any time. Todays laws are crazy sometimes. 

The bible has a fair number of laws in it as well. Before Christ we were subject to all of them. If you break even one, you’re guilty of having broken them all according to james 2:10. Especially in the old testament there are a ton of laws. Laws about food, and shellfish, and bacon, and bathing, and sex. Laws about every single aspect of life. The jews took it a step further and added some additional laws. Laws about how far you could walk on a Sunday, without having set up mini camp sites the day before. If you set up 20 mini campsites you could walk as far as the campsites stretched and be ok. They had laws about how men should grow beards. Laws about alcohol, and gossip, and disease. There were so many laws, that there was no possible way we could keep them all. So God instituted a system of sacrifices to pay the price for our sins. Maybe if it was a “small” sin, it would only be a little thing, but sometimes you had to pay for much more expensive sacrifices. There were birds you could sacrifice, grains, and even sheep. The sacrifice didn’t erase the stain of sin, it just covered it. Like a bandaid doesn’t take away the cut beneath it, but it covers it. 

So many laws, Paul writes in galatians that we were held captive, we were in bondage to the law. Because of our bondage to sin, we were in bondage to the law. Can you imagine that? It was like debters prison. You owe someone money, you had to go to jail. Can you pay someone back from jail? Certainly not. If left to ones own devices, that debt could never be paid. Just like that bandaid, by it self cannot make a cut go away. Without the bodies immune system, and its ability to repair it self, that bandaid would do little more than keep dirt out, sometimes. 

SO it was with the Law. The law is there to show us where we fall short. To show us what is right and what is wrong. But the law can’t save us. The law is a tool, like the bandaid. When we were under the law, in bondage to the law, we were like that little girl locked outside in the chicken coop standing in waste while snow rained down from the sky. Pretty bleak isn’t it?
Romans 3:23 says that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. So none of us can live up to the standard of the law, much less can we live up to God’s standard. 

We were at a resaraunt the other night that my grandmother used to love. When she was alive we went there easily once a week for their fried fish. But this last time we were there they had lowered their standards. They had let their cleanliness slide. The table was wet when we sat down. The tables were short, and the chairs were tall. The food came out cold. The soda came out mixed with other things. The service was slow, the bathrooms dirty the salad wilted at the salad bar. 

What was once a great place had dropped their standards and is now – or at least was that night – a yucky place. Heaven is a perfect place. God is perfect. Can perfect and sinful coexist? Certainly not. Before we go too far, I imagine their might be someone out there thinking they are a pretty good person, and wouldn’t make too much of a mess of things. So before we go any further, lets look at a few of the ten commandments. Lets start with the third commandment. Any of you ever said “oh my god” and weren’t praying? Just saying it idly as an expression – a thing that’s really common in our culture today? Anyone? You don’t have to raise your hand. If you’ve done that, you’ve broken the 3rd commandment already. What about stealing? When you were a kid, did you ever sneak a piece of candy, or a cookie from the cookie jar when you weren’t supposed to? I did. I was at a grocery store, and they had these individually wrapped caramels way way back when they used to sell bulk candy at the grocery stores. Any way, I grabbed two of them. I was maybe 5. I get out to the car, and my mother makes me march back in there and tell the store manager what I’d done. He didn’t care, he was like whatever kid. Have a good day. But its one of those things you never forget. We’ve all done stuff like that right? You know what the bible says about that? Says we are thieves. So far we’ve covered two commandments, and most or all of us have already broken both. Were people that take the lords name in vain, and thieves. What about lying? Ever told a white lie to spare someone’s feelings? A friend of mine growing up had a parent that was experimenting with a crockpot. Turns out a crock pot can cook every bit of texture out of the food that’s inside it. It gets kind of mushy and chalky. Any of you know what I mean? Anyway, I was at this kids house, eating some kind of meat that had the texture cooked completely out of it, and his mom asked me “well what do you think? I think I might have over cooked it”. Raised to be polite, I said no its not that bad. Liar. We’ve all told little white lies haven’t we? When someone tells a lie they are a liar. So far we are liars, and thieves who take the Lords name in vain. Do I need to continue? Because we can talk about adultery, and looking inappropriately at people of the opposite sex. Or hatred. Ever felt so angry with someone you thought maybe you hated them? If so then the bible says in your heart you’re a murderer. Lying, stealing, adulterous, murderers at heart, and we’ve only hit the first few of the ten commandments. Do you see where I’m going here? We have all messed up, we have all missed the mark, we have all fallen short of the glory of God. We’ve looked at four commands, and we have so far failed utterly and completely. And we know that whomever is guilty of breaking just one tiny law, is guilty of breaking them all. James 2 says. 

What we deserve for that is eternal separation from God. Romans 6:23 the wages of sin is death. 

So we looked at the law, lets look at what fulfilled the law, and freed us from its bondage. 

When I say we are free from its bondage, I mean in the sense of vs 13 earlier in this chapter – it says Christ freed us from the curse of the law by becoming the curse for us. You see Jesus was the only one that could free us from sin. He lived a perfect and sinless life. You and I couldn’t even live up to four of the ten commandments, but Jesus was able to keep all 613 laws in the old testament. He was the only one who has ever done so. So he was the only one that could satisfy God’s wrath for our sin. He was the only one that could take our punishment. 

Scripture says “while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us”. We deserved death. But Jesus took our sin upon himself by taking the consequence for all sin. Christ’s death was sufficient for all! It was a cosmic trade of sorts. 1 peter 3:18 says For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, to bring you to God. He was put to death in the body but made alive in the Spirit.”

Christ was the only living human that could be fully righteous. He was the only one able to make that payment. He was the only one who could do more than cover our sin like a bandaid. His death satisfied a debt we could never hope to pay. 

Someone said its like this: you’ve lived your life on a credit card with no limits to this point. Charging everything that looked like fun. Charging like a crazy person. Charging like a person who has no concept of the fact that debt must one day be paid off. Now your way of life has caused you to have 5 trillion in debt. IN truth, I doubt all of us together could afford the interest payment each month on 5 trillion, much less ever hope to pay it off. Its such an outrageous sum that society deems you guilty and you are sentenced to death. That’s exactly where everyone is apart from Christ. We are all guilty and deserving of death. Romans says the wages of sin is death. The payment for our way of life apart from Christ, the consequences of our failure to keep the law is death. Is eternity apart from Christ, apart from God in heaven. If you aren’t in heaven – where are you? 

The only thing we truly deserve for our actions is hell. 

But because of this cosmic eschange. Because of Christ’s death. Because he traded himself the righteous for the unrighteous, we can be presented to God. I said earlier that sinful people cant be in the presence of sinless God right? Because of Christ’s death. Our credit card balance has been paid. He took our punishment. 

Romans 5:8 says while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Its as though he took the glass of God’s wrath and drank it down for us. While we were yet sinners. 

This is not something automatically given to everyone by default. It cost Christ everything he had as a man to purchase our freedom. 

Like Hosea purchasing his wife back off the auction block last week cost him everything. 

What a wonderful gift!

Fortunately, as God’s son he was able to defeat death, like he defeated hell. He has defeated our enemy satan and his demons. You see scripture says three days after he was crucified he came back to life! The best part is not only did scripture report this, but there were more than 500 witnesses. 

That’s one of the main differences between being a Christian and any other religion. All of their principal religious figures have died, are buried. Christ is the only one who still lives. 

The Gift is free. But he doesn’t give it to everyone. I’ll come back to this in a moment. Because I want to continue talking about the benefits of this gift for a minute. 

So in verse 26. Someone with the NIV translation please read vs 26. That word Son is translated son, because the greek word is using a masculine tense. You know how we have male and female impersonal pronouns? He and She? In greek every word is for the most part either male, or female. The word they used – and Its not something I can pronounce – sorry about that. The closest spelling I could come up with in English is Iuion with an H sounds concurrent with the IU part. Maybe hweee ohn?. Any way its used a few times in the bible. It describes someone who is an honored and beloved child regardless of their age. If you were to introduce someone and say “This is my Son whom I love”, or “This is my daughter whom I love” that’s the weight that this word carries. It also carries with it this idea of being a student, or disciple, of being a child of someone spiritually. It is also sometimes used in relation to Jesus as God’s son. 
That’s a pretty high honor right there. 

In a very real sense when we receive this gift, we become sons and daughters of God. We become heirs to the kingdom. 

Were talking about the King of Kings and Lord of Lords here, and now we have the right, James 1 says, to become children of God. His beloved children. Heirs of the king of kings and the Lord of Lords. That means every single one of us that are Christians are princes or princesses. With a father who adopted us. 

Remember the little girl from the chicken coop? We are so very much like her. Except it was by our own choice that we lived in the chicken coop. In the waste, and cold. But God sent His Son so to pay the price of our adoption, so that we could be the Children of God. As believers God says we don’t need to worry about food or clothes. He says look at the flowers in the fields? Are they not beautifully dressed? What about the bids? They don’t have Jobs or 401ks, but do they have to worry about where they will sleep, or where their next meal will come from? Our father who loves us more than fields, and birds will take care of us too. 

That doesn’t mean we won’t have problems, and difficult times. But God does promise he will supply all of our needs according to his riches and glory. In fact one of the names for God is provider – Jehovah Jireh. 

An way. If you have never come to a point in your spiritual life where you have done what we have been talking about today. Today is the day! There is this free gift just sitting out there waiting for you to reach out and take it. 



I promised I would tell you how to do that later – its easy. Scripture says in romans 10:9 that if you confess with your mouth The Lord Jesus Christ, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved. Its that easy. If you would like to accept this gift just pray something like this to God: 

Lord Jesus, for too long I’ve kept you out of my life. I know that I am a sinner and that I cannot save myself. No longer will I close the door when I hear you knocking. By faith I gratefully receive your gift of salvation. I am ready to trust you as my Lord and Savior. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for coming to earth. I believe you are the Son of God who died on the cross for my sins and rose from the dead on the third day. Thank you for bearing my sins and giving me the gift of eternal life. I believe your words are true. Come into my heart, Lord Jesus, and be my Savior. Amen.