Animal Instructions

Sheep: Each sheep gets one pound of feed. The two quart mark on the scoop (the line a few inches from the top) is three pounds of feed. 

Pen 1 and 2 are on the western side of the yard (left coming through the gate), and 3-7 are on the east side (right coming through the gate). Most of the pens have a number by the gate. 

7 - 10 lambs (the only pen without a number, but it has all but one of the lambs in it, so you can see which it is).
6 - 4 sheep 
5 - 2 sheep
4 - 9 - 8 sheep and a lamb
3 - 4 sheep
2 - 2 sheep
1 - 7 sheep

Lambs and adult sheep get the same amount of food. We have one named Houdini, for obvious reasons. He can get back in as easily as he gets out. If he’s out, just feed the lambs In pen 7, and when he thinks he’s not being watched he will jump back through the fence and eat. Don’t worry about trying to catch him. We’ve struggled to keep him in. 

IF the lambs in pen 7 have eaten their whole bale of hay, there is a spare one in the stall behind the tree fort. There is a goose sitting eggs in there, Shes harmless. 

Guineas/chickens – take a scoop of the bird feed (left hand side of the east feed shed) and toss it in the yard. 

Geese – two scoops from the bird feed same bucket as guineas. I put a partial scoop near the goose in the stall behind the tree fort also. 

Mother and Baby guineas – They should have food and water enough for the week. But we’d still appreciate you checking if you can. The treefort has the bikes underneath, beside that is the stall with the bale of hay, and the goose setting her eggs (which could hatch any day now), the very end of that structure closest to the road is where the baby guineas are. If they are out of food, there is a bag marked medicated chicken starter, or chick start and grow, or something along those lines. This is for the guinea keets (baby guineas), not the geese. 

Dogs at my house have an automatic feeder and waterer. Should be fine for the week. If you wouldn’t mind checking on the big water bucket with the waterer on it, that would be perfect. Joy is in heat, and I can’t keep them separate while I’m gone. So it may be a bit of a discovery channel situation if you have Liv with you. They are sometimes happy to see strangers, and sometimes not. They are pretty protective of me.  They LOVE treats. There will be some just inside the door of my mobile  if they are unfriendly. Toss them a few each if you like. 

Any questions, or in the event of an emergency, give me a call. 

7275346203