
Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary seeks to glorify the
Lord Jesus Christ by equipping students to serve the church and fulfill the great commission.

Fall 2018
COURSE: BCO5500 Online
Kristin L Kellen, PhD
Email: kkellen@sebts.edu
Grader: April Thompson
Grader email: kellensebtsgrader@gmail.com


Biblical Counseling


CONTACT INFORMATION: Should you have any questions regarding assignments, grades or due dates AFTER you have first consulted the syllabus, please direct them to April Thompson via email (kellensebtsgrader@gmail.com). All questions concerning Moodle should FIRST be directed to Distance Learning at (distancelearning@sebts.edu).  In the event that you need to contact Dr. Kellen concerning an issue not related to grades, due dates, assignments, the syllabus, or Moodle, the best way to contact her is via email (kkellen@sebts.edu). 

 
COURSE DESCRIPTION:  An introduction to biblical counseling theory and practice, including a focus on how Scripture and theology form the foundation and substance for counseling, biblical concepts for understanding people and their problems, and biblical methods of change.

STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES:  This course has been designed so that students might be able to achieve the following: 
Practice the spiritual discipline of reading, learning, and obeying Scripture
Memorize Scriptures relevant to biblical counseling
Be introduced to helpful secondary literature concerning the counseling
Examine counseling theories and methods from the perspective of a biblical worldview
Gain a biblical understanding of people, including motivation, basic problems, and methods of change
Understand the role of the church in counseling 
Develop basic competency to counsel persons with mental-emotional-behavioral problems
Begin to develop a biblical-theological model of the process and practice of Biblical Counseling




SEBTS CORE COMPETENCIES:
Spiritual Formation: Demonstrate the knowledge and skills necessary to pursue an authentically Christian way of life, manifested by trust in God, obedience to Christ’s commands, and love of God and neighbor. [Course SLO #1, 2]

Biblical Exposition: Demonstrate the ability to properly and effectively interpret, apply, and communicate the Scriptures. [Course SLO #1, 2, 5, 8]

Theological Integration: Demonstrate the ability to understand and apply the doctrines of Christianity to life and ministry. [Course SLO #1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8]

Ministry Preparation: Demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and Christian disposition necessary for ministry and leadership in the church and the world. [Course SLO #2, 5, 6, 7, 8]

Critical Thinking and Communication: Demonstrate the ability to think critically, argue persuasively, and communicate clearly. [Course SLO #3, 4, 8]

REQUIRED TEXTS
Lane, Timothy S. and Paul David Tripp. How People Change. Winston-Salem, NC: Punch Press, 2006. (HPC)
 
Tripp, Paul David. Instruments in the Redeemer’s Hands: People in Need of Change Helping People in Need of Change. Phillipsburg, NJ: P&R, 2002.  (IRH)    

Pierre, Jeremy and Deepak Reju. The Pastor and Counseling. Crossway, 2015. (PaC)

Sande, Ken. The Peacemaker. Baker Books, 2004. 

Welch, Edward T. When People Are Big and God Is Small. Phillipsburg, NJ: P&R, 1997.


REQUIRED READINGS
ARTICLES
Jay E. Adams. “Change Them . . . Into What?” The Journal of Biblical Counseling 13, no. 2 (1995): 13-17. (Adams – Change)
________. “What Is Nouthetic Counseling?” Unpublished article available at www.nouthetic.org. (Adams – WNC)
Powlison, David. “Biological Psychiatry,” JBC 17:3 (Spring 1999): 2–8. (DAP – Bio Psych)
________. “Do You See?” JBC 11:3 (Spring 1993): 3–4. (DAP – See?)
________. “The Therapeutic Gospel” 9Marks eJournal (July/August 2007). Available at www.9marks.org (DAP – Therapeutic Gospel)
Vitz, Paul. “Psychology in Recovery,” First Things 151 (March 2005): 17-22. (Vitz – PR)
Welch, Ed. “Counseling Those Who Are Depressed” JBC 18:2 (2000): 5–31. (Welch – Depression)
________. What Is Biblical Counseling Anyway?” JBC 16:1 (1997): 2–6. (Welch – WBC)
________. “What You Should Know About Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD),” JBC 14:2 (1996): 26–31. (Welch – ADD)
________. "Who Are We?: Needs, Longings, and the Image of God in Man," Journal of Biblical Counseling, 13:1, 1994, pp. 25-38. (Welch – Who Are We?)

RECOMMENDED READING
Jay E. Adams. The Christian Counselor’s Manual: The Practice of Nouthetic Counseling. Grand Rapids: Zondervan, 1973. 
________. Competent to Counsel: Introduction to Nouthetic Counseling. Grand Rapids: Zondervan, 1970. 
 Jim Berg, Changed Into His Image. Greenville, SC: Bob Jones University Press, 1999. 
John Broger, Self-Confrontation: A Manual for In-Depth Discipleship. Palm Desert, CA: Biblical Counseling Foundation, 1996. 
David Powlison. “Counsel the Word.” Journal of Biblical Counseling 11, no. 2 (Winter 1993): 2-3.
________. “Idols of the Heart and ‘Vanity Fair.” JBC 13, no. 2 (Winter 1995): 35-50. 
________. Seeing With New Eyes: Counseling and the Human Condition Through the Lens of Scripture. Phillipsburg, NJ: P & R, 2003.
Philip Rieff, The Triumph of the Therapeutic, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1987.
Noel Weeks, The Sufficiency of Scripture. Carlisle, PA: Banner of Truth Trust, 1988.

COURSE REQUIREMENTS:    
Students are expected to satisfactorily fulfill all of the following listed requirements. Since this is a three hour course, the professor expects the students to complete 2250 minutes of work in class and 4500 minutes of work outside of class. Reading and writing assignments for this course have been calculated with these requirements in mind.  
  
Reading (10%) – Readings will include assigned texts and handouts provided on Moodle (See Course Schedule). The student will complete regular reading quizzes on Moodle to keep the student accountable.  
  
Online Lectures (5%) – Each student is required to watch the lectures assigned in the Course Schedule below. Please keep a detailed record of your viewing schedule to turn in at the end of the semester, using the template on Moodle.  

Examinations (35%) – Comprehension and assimilation of the material derived from lecture and reading assignments will be tested by means of mid-term and final examinations. 

1)  MIDTERM EXAM (15%) 
The Midterm will cover all class lectures, discussions, and readings through week seven (see schedule). The exam is comprised of objective, short answer, and discussion questions. The Midterm exam will be available on Moodle from 12:05AM Monday, October 15 until 11:55PM Sunday, October 21, 2017. 


		2)  FINAL EXAM (20%)
The Final Exam is cumulative and will cover all lectures and readings for the entire semester, but will be heavily weighted toward the material covered from the Midterm Exam on (see schedule). The format is the same as the Midterm. The Final Exam will be available on Moodle from Monday December 3 until 11:55p.m. Wednesday, December 5, 2017. The student will have 3 hours to complete the exam. Please note, in order to have the full amount of time, the student should begin the exam no later than Wednesday, December 5 at 8:55p.m.

Quizzes (20% total) 
Reading (10%): There will be reading quizzes on particular readings throughout the semester as indicated in the Course Schedule. The quiz will open at on Monday at 12:05a.m. and close Sunday at 11:55p.m. of the week indicated on Course Schedule. Reading quizzes are NOT open-book. This is meant to keep you accountable to read the material so that you will be prepared for lectures and class discussion. (There are no make-up quizzes.)

Scripture Memory (10%) – It is vital for a biblical counselor to hide God’s Word in his/her heart. Therefore, to help in the process the student will be allowed to earn 10% of the final grade by memorizing five Scripture passages. Scripture Memory quizzes are to be taken in the following manner:  
The entire passage is to be memorized and reported via writing at one sitting. No helps are to be used.   
The student is to type on a blank document the entire passage including student’s name, Scripture address, version memorized, name of the grader (see below), the time the quiz is started and the time the quiz is ended.  
Once completed, the student is to write the following statement and initial: I completed this Scripture memory quiz by memory and did not consult anything or anyone else in its completion.  
Have someone grade the quiz for you. Give them your quiz and a copy of the translation you memorized. Count off 1 point per mistake (missed words, words out of order, added words). Do not count off for punctuation, spelling or capitalization.   
Review your graded quiz for feedback. 
Submit the entire document, with the grade included, in Moodle.   

Writing Assignment (15%) – For all written assignments, students are expected to follow the most current Turabian style guide. All written work is to be double-spaced, Times New Roman 12pt font (or equivalent), 1” margins. In addition, all written assignments are to be uploaded as MSWord (.doc, .docx) or Portable Document files (.pdf). 
Personal Application Paper (15%) – Each student will read The Peacemaker and complete a 4-5 page summary/application paper. This should include a three (3) page summary and a one-two (1-2) page section which includes 3 or 4 major “take-aways” you gained from the book. Please underline each of these lessons as you begin them in the paper. For example, “The first major lesson I took from the book is . . . . This paper is to conform to SEBTS style guidelines and is to be uploaded as a Word document (i.e., .doc or .docx) no later than 11:55p.m. Sunday of the week indicated on the Course Schedule.

Threaded Discussions (10%) - All students are required to complete four threaded discussions on Moodle. These discussions will be available 12:05a.m., Monday until 11:55p.m., Sunday the week indicated on the Course Schedule. Participation is defined as responding to the question by Friday evening AND interaction with at least 2 of your classmate’s responses by Sunday evening. 

ONLINE LECTURES
Each student is required to watch the lectures assigned in the Course Schedule below. Please keep a detailed record of your viewing schedule to turn in at the end of the semester. Your viewing schedule can be a Word document, Excel file or Portable Document File, but should include: date, Lecture/csg session watched, time begun, time ended for each period of time you watch lectures online. This Schedule is to be uploaded via Moodle no later than 11:55p.m., Wednesday, December 5th, 2018. A student who fails to complete this requirement can make no higher than a “B” in this course.

COURSE SUBMISSIONS REQUIREMENT: 
All written assignments are due by 11:55 pm on the due date and are to be turned in electronically via Moodle. A strict one (1) point per calendar day deduction will be applied to all assignments in which late submissions are acceptable (i.e., reading quizzes, Scripture memory quizzes and exams are not accepted late). 

EVALUATION/GRADING: 
Assignments for this course will be evaluated according to the following criteria:
Does the work illustrate the student’s grasp of basic concepts, definitions, and principles related to course content? 
Does the student demonstrate clear and specific interaction with the assigned reading material and other viewpoints in threaded discussions?
Is there evidence of the student’s personal reflection on the topics discussed? Does the work illustrate the student’s independent research and learning?
Does the work reflect the student’s responsibility to prepare both academically and practically, i.e., has the student attempted to apply the material to his ministry setting or to the local church in general?
Does the work fulfill the assignment by the required date?  Because ministry itself demands discipline, students are expected to meet established deadlines for submitted work.
Is the assignment written at a level appropriate for master’s level work? Does the work follow proper style?

COURSE GRADING WEIGHT:   
Examinations – 40%  
Reading – 10%  
Writing Assignments – 15% 
Quizzes – 10%  
Viewing Lectures – 5%   
Scripture Memorization – 10%  
Threaded Discussions – 10%  

*NOTE: Students are required to complete all aspects of the course.  Any student not completing all assignments will receive no higher than a C in the course.

COURSE GRADING: 
Grading for the course will follow the guidelines in the Southeastern faculty handbook:  
A = 95-100; B = 87-94; C = 77-86; D = 70-76; F = below 70. 

Cheating or plagiarism of any kind will result in an immediate failing grade on the assignment with no chance for resubmission. The professor does have the option either to allow the student to remain in and complete the course or to dismiss the student from the course completely. Regardless of the professor’s ruling, all cases of cheating or plagiarism will be reported to the Dean of Students Office and the appropriate Academic Dean(s) where further disciplinary action will be considered. At the very least, a permanent record of the infraction will be kept in the student's file. For further information regarding this policy, please refer to the ‘Plagiarism & Cheating’ section of the Student Handbook.

DISCLAIMER:  
This syllabus is intended to reflect accurately the course description, course objectives, general content, grading criteria, course requirements, attendance requirements, and other information necessary for students to appraise the course.  However, the professor reserves the right to modify any portion of this syllabus as may appear necessary because of events and circumstances that change during the term.

*Please see the Moodle page for the weekly assignments.
COURSE SCHEDULE
