It strikes me that at the heart of so many of the false religions today is the idea that Jesus just isn’t enough. Jehovas Witness, and Mormonism for instance, unbeknownst to them is based upon a second century heresy. This guy named Arius tried to change the bible by adding in a single Greek letter iota, it looks like a little tiny I, and is pronounced like an I, to a single word, in the book of John. Instead of the Greek word “Homoousias” you end up with the Greek word Homoioosias. One letter shouldn’t make much difference right? Except in this case the difference was huge. Instead of Jesus being the same as God – homoosias, changing the one letter changed Arius understand of who Jesus is to something less than God. Instead of the same, Homoioosias, changed Jesus to simply be similar, but not the same as God. Like fools gold is to real gold, so arius Jesus was to God. 

Quite a stark comparison. A friend of mine bought a watch a while back, he spent 25,000$ on a rolex. He thought he was getting a great deal, because the rolex he was buying, he figured was worth 50,000. Guess what he ended up with? Not a homoosias rolex, but a homoioosias rolex. A fake, a forgery, a fraud. He ended up with a 400$ fake, and being parted with his 25,000 dollars, and filing a police report, and hoping they can recover the money from the guy before he spends it. 

No one wants a fake rolex, or ladies, I know fake purses and things were a big deal on facebook a while back. No one wants to pay real amounts of money for something that’s fake. The Jesus of some of these cults, is the same way. He’s not 1/3 of the Trinity, of the same substance as God, he’s not real gold. He’s just a shiny rock. He’s a fake rolex, or a fauxlex. Or in hand bags, He’s not a louis viton, in arius or jehovas witness terms, or Mormon terms He’s a fouxie viton. 

Closer to home, in terms of people you might see on Christian tv, there are plenty of people that hold to the prosperity Gospel. You’ve heard some of them, Kenneth Hagin comes to mind, or Kenneth “God says I deserve another better Jet” Copeland, so “I don’t have to travel with the poors” Copeland. Freddy Price, Oral Robert – who once famously said God says if I don’t get 8 million dollars He’s going to call me home. OR Benny Hinn, or the so called Bishop T.D. Jakes, or Creflo Dollar, or even Joel Osteen. Just like our presidents former spiritual adviser Paula White, and one of the most famous is probably Joyce Meyer. All ascribe to this Prosperity Gospel, and the prosperity Gospel does the same thing in some key ways. 

It elevates comfort, and security and health, and wealth as the goals above all else. 

Where Jesus wants you holy, the prosperity Gospel wants you comfortable. 
Where Jesus wants you humble, the prosperity Gospel says everyone deserves to be wealthy. 
Where Jesus wants us to learn and grow through infirmity, The prosperity Gospel wants you to be healthy no matter what. The prosperity Gospel is every bit a hunk of shiny fools gold metal, a fouxie viton, or a faulex, compared to the incomparable true Gospel of Jesus Christ. The real deal. The true rolex, or louis viton, or real Gold. The prosperity Gospel presents a Jesus that doesn’t want to prepare us for the life to come, and instead wants us to create our own heaven here on earth. 

For the Christian, the best is yet to come, all of our rewards, and eternal pleasures will be found in Heaven, and in Jesus. 

People, if earth is as good as it gets for you, where are you headed in eternity? Instead of worshipping Jesus, the prosperity Gospel puts your selfish sinful backside as the object of worship. Because what makes you happy depends on you. What makes you consider your self wealthy, depends on you. What your idea of health or comfort or security, all of that is defined by you. Where is God in that? Where is Jesus? We HAVE to have a proper view of Jesus. We have to keep Jesus as the focus of our worship, or we are in a cult. Drinking down poison. Consuming heresy that – while it may look alright from a distance, is a waste of time, energy, and life. Like my friends fake rolex, that he paid 25,000 dollars for, that turned out to be pretty much worthless. Sometimes to achieve spiritual health, we have to go through times of poverty, of discomfort, of pain, and suffering. To have true spiritual wealth, we will definitely have times of struggle. God says as Christians we will be refined as gold in a fire. What part of that sounds like earthly security? The prosperity gospel is more or less the same thing as a witches incantation. The Washington post in an article describes it this way “Few theological ideas ring more dissonant with the harmony of orthodox Christianity than a focus on storing up treasures on Earth as a primary goal of faithful living. The gospel of prosperity turns Christianity into a vapid bless-me club, with a doctrine that amounts to little more than spiritual magical thinking: If you pray the right way, God will make you rich.” Are then the poor cursed it continues? If you don’t have a Mercedes does God hate you? If that’s true it continues, why would God send his son to be born into poverty. In a feed trough, in a manger. Jesus was born poor, Jesus died poor. 

To know the real thing from a fake, we have to study the real thing closely. We have to know the real Jesus really well so that when we encounter a fake we can identify it. If my friend had known the model of watch he was going to buy really well, then he wouldn’t have been sucker out of 25k. So were going to spend some time in Colossians for the next few weeks, a major theme of which is the supremacy of Christ. The study of Christ, is a branch of theology called “Christology”. Which just means the scriptures that talk about Jesus. 

Alright, lets read our passage. 

It's important to note that one of the reasons Paul wrote this book was because of a heresy that had taken root in the city the church was in, that had apparently spread even to some of the members of the church. The idea was sort of their equivalent of some of the things we’ve talked about today. With some twists. But they were rooted in the idea that Maybe just maybe Jesus on his own is insufficient. The long and short of it is that people were saying Yes Jesus saves, but only if the local deities didn’t disqualify you. I mean you can see how something like that might spring up. You’re a pagan religious leader, and you and your stick or rock have all the power. Then suddenly someone comes along, and offers a different way. The real way, and where your little g god is powerless, this new upstart one is healing the sick, and demon possessed. Things your stick could never do because it’s a lifeless stick. So you make up some stuff about how your stick can disqualify someone from heaven, if you don’t keep the stick happy. IF your donations dry up, if you stop attending the stick services. So Paul writes Colossians to make it abundantly clear that there is no little g god, greater than the God we serve. No one greater than Jesus. We can see some of this in vs 12, which says “giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance” God is the one that qualifies us or disqualifies us. Not Mohammad or the book of islam, not Joseph Smith or his book of mormon, not Charles Taze Russel, the governing body, or the watch tower people, not the prosperity Gospel folks.  Only God. 

What matters is your relationship with God. With Jesus. You see, vs 13 says we – speaking of Christians here - have been delivered from the domain of darkness, and transferred to the kingdom of his beloved son. The son of course is Jesus. This should be a warm blanket on a cold night for us. John 6 says “All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out.” That same sentiment is repeated throughout the Gospels. Some might say that’s it then, if God wants me saved I’ll be saved, I don’t have to do anything. Or just as bad, sometimes Christians have said WRONGLY that why do I have to bother with the lost at all, if God wants them saved, he will save them. Lets answer the first question first. R.C. Sproul – the preacher at presbyterian church st Andrews in Orlando wrote this: “God’s Sovereignty in election, redemption, effectual calling, and regeneration does not render Human’s response to the gospel irrelevant. Rather, God’s initiating power makes our believing response possible by imparting life to the dead”. 

In short we still have to respond to God, but God enables it. Without God’s enablement, all would be lost. Lets say its like we are blind. Its more than just being blind, but go with it for a second. Were blind. Sin has blinded us. We can’t see. We are fumbling around in an unfamiliar place in the dark trying to understand – apart from God – what can we really do? Stub our toes? Make a mess when we trip over the coffee table? What can a blind man – unassisted, so no cane, no seeing eye dog, no helps,  – in a strange place really do? Apart from Christ that’s how we go through life. Then one day we encounter Jesus. Or more accurately, Jesus encounters us. He heals us and gives us sight. In that moment, Jesus asks us to follow him. And in that moment when we really truly see God, Truly see Jesus, Truly see our purpose in life for the first time, Truly see our savior for the first time. The one we were created for, how could we do anything else but follow him? We have the choice. If we really saw him, and were repulsed by his holiness, and love. Then sure we could walk away. But I think God in his sovereignty didn’t – doesn’t – do that to people who hate love that much. To people for whom seeing him would cause them pain. 

I had a theology professor one time that said forcing someone who hates God to go to heaven would be its own form of hell, that it’s a mercy God allows people who are devoted to their hatred of Him to end up somewhere else. I’m not sure Hell is ever a mercy. But he does allow people to go there, that choose to. 

As to the second question about sharing the gospel; let me ask you guys this. Who of you is omniscient, that is who of you knows everything past, present and future, and everything that could have happened? Any of you? Oh, that’s right, None of us are. None of us know who precisely God has given to Jesus to save. PLUS God & Jesus have commanded us to be involved with sharing the gospel. 

Hah. I remember one day we were going to go to a theme park and take the kids. The girls had never been, but Wyley thought he was too cool for all that. To big. To grown up. So he decided he didn’t want to go. He was 8. So we weren’t leaving him home, so we had to command him to go get ready, command him to put his shoes on, command and compel him to get in the car and check his attitude. His going was a privilege. But he couldn’t see it. He thought bush gardens was just the little kids play area. But its so much more than that, and once he got there, he had a great time. But we had to command him to enjoy himself. Command him to join in. 

Sharing the gospel is a little like that. It’s a priveledge for God to involve us in what he’s doing at all. It’s a joy to be a part of. But we so often get things twisted around backwards in our own minds, and miss out on one of the joys, and priveledges of being a Christian.  So, like with my nephew God commands us to be involved in Missions. In evangelism. In the work he is doing. Some people go their whole life without ever sharing the gospel. But that is their loss, and their sin, their rebellion against the God that sent his son to die on the cross for us. The son in whom we have redemption and forgiveness of sins, vs 14. Who is the image of God vs 15, and the first born of all creation. Who created all things vs 16 in heaven and on earth. Visible and invisible. Thrones, dominions, powers, rules, authorities, all things were created through him, and for him. And vs 17 he holds all things together. 

There isn’t a thing in this world that exists that Jesus didn’t create. We got to see a few of those things this past month. I personally had no idea the inside of the mouth of a volcano would be so beautiful. Water falls everywhere, meeting a picture perfect still serene lake. Huge and ancient trees, and a thousand kinds of flowers all thriving in the rich soil that you find inside a volcano. Sort of looked like something Thomas Kincaid would have painted a cottage into. 

We saw mountains that touched the ocean, and sunsets that couldn’t have been painted better by any other master artist. We saw barrier reefs teeming with thousands of colorful tropical fish. 

All of that, and a thousand things besides – all created by Jesus. But not just the thigns we see. But the things we’ve learned too. Enjoyed a meal? God through Jesus created all of the elements that went into making that meal, including the chef who assembled it. 

Every tree. Every rock. Everything was created by Jesus for his purposes. Every real law of science we’ve discovered, and by that I don’t mean the transient things – like with butter. Yesterday butter was good and margarin was good, today margarin is good and butter is bad, and tomorrow it will change again. I don’t mean the transitive things that science discovers but the real laws of nature, things like gravity… Jesus made that. Things like the planet Betelguese, which would take a thousand life times traveling faster than we know how to reach and circle once. Yet every evening in the night sky we can look up and see its orange glow. Truth be told, its traveling away from us at speeds that are faster than we have the technology to travel. Right around fifty thousand miles per hour, and yet still its one of the brightest stars in the night sky. 

While were talking about things Jesus created, I saw a great quote by a preacher from the 1800s named Octavius Winslow who said “So completely was Jesus bent upon saving sinners by the sacrifice of Himself that he created the tree upon which he was to die, and nurtured from infancy the men who were to nail him to the accursed wood”. 

Jesus does what it takes to save sinners, up to and including the cost of His life. 

He moves heaven and earth, so that no one given to Him will be lost. 

I read a story about a native American man who was walking around on the eastern seaboard of the united states one day, and he was asking some deep questions. It occurred to him that all of his family and friends worshipped created things. Trees, and rocks, and so forth. It occurred to him, if there was a God worth worshipping out there, that it wouldn’t be in the tree, it would be the one who created the tree, and so he prayed “Creator God if you are really out there, show yourself to me. Send me a message that I might know you”. So the story goes when he opened his eyes, on the horizon he saw three sailing ships coming towards shore… The Nina, the Pinta, and the Santa maria. 

None that are given to Jesus will be lost. For when we truly see him for real, for the first time, we are so overcome with Love, and joy, and gratitude – how can we ever do anything but follow Christ? Truly follow Christ. 

If you’ve never had that encounter with God, then I believe God has you here for a reason. No one ends up in a place like this by accident. 

Lets look at romans 3:23. I read this every week, but this week I want you guys to look at it with me. 

Gospel.

Announcements, we will continue to be in colossians for a while, and will pick up in col 1 where we left off next Sunday. 





