Cultural Marxism

Today is sort of a part 2 of last week. The next article in the Baptist faith and message is talking about communion and baptism, and since next week is communion Sunday, it seemed appropriate to talk about that article then. So we most of last week talking about history and scripture, this week will mostly be philosophy and scripture. 

Were going to be reading a number of verses. But we will start with a verse in Romans: 10:12-13

While you’re turning there, lets talk about our people group of the week. 

Dhund in Pakistan
The Dhund Abbasi people are said to have come to ancient Pakistan from Egypt around 850 AD, as traders and merchants in commodities. It is likely that they are descended from the Abbasid dynasty. This dynasty governed for 500 years from Baghdad, Iraq. The rule of the Abbasi extended eastwards across Afghanistan into the South Asian subcontinent, covering the eastern part of modern-day Pakistan. A conflicting acccount is that the Dhund Abbasi are descendants of Abbas, an uncle of their prophet Mohammad. Either way, there are nearly a million of these people and to the best of our knowledge not a single one is a believer in Jesus Christ. Muslims that can trace their lineage back to Mohammad tend to be especially proud of this and more devoted as a result. This makes ministering in their midst especially challenging. Who will pray for the Dhund of the middle east?

Ok lets read, Romans 10:12-13: "For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. 13 For "everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved."


There is so much more to talk about when it comes to the church, and current issues facing our denomination. One of the leaders of our denomination, the president of the southern Baptist theological seminary in Kentucky is calling what we are seeing the invasion of cultural Marxism. That sounds like a complicated term, but its really not. Anyone know what Marxism is? It’s a political system where everything you own is taken away by a group of people at the top, to be redistributed by them to whomever they want for whatever reasons they deem important. 

Can any one define culture? Culture is a reflection of a peoples achievements, aspirations, art, and intellect.

Cultural Marxism then seeks to suppress any cultural thing with which it disagrees, and support any cultural thing with which it agrees. Think in terms of southern culture recently, people have been tearing down statutes, burning flags, encouraging, and discouraging elements of our collective heritage. Have you picked up on this at all? I’m sure we are all aware of this happening to some extent even here in our own area – there was a statute pulled down in Brooksville because it didn’t agree with a certain cultural narrative. It isn’t just the weirdo’s on the left that are guilty of this. If you’re familiar with a group that calls themselves the alt right, they use these same tactics to oppress cultural things produced by ethnic groups they dislike. Suppressing anyone or anything simply because it was thought of, painted by, or written by a person of a different group than you are part of is racism. Full stop. 

The way this is manifesting in our denomination right now, and especially through some of the seminaries, is that… well lets do it this way. 

lets say dottie is from albania, and lets say greg is a normal white protestant american male. 

Lets say that dottie writes a book on philosophy. Its good over all. Its not a subject she’s passionate about, and it shows through in her work. However she is an excellent writer, and that makes up a lot of the difference making it a worth while book to read. Then lets say Greg writes a book on the same topic. Except lets say for Greg this subject is his passion. He’s studied it for his whole life. He wakes up thinking about it, it’s the last thing he thinks about before he goes to bed. He eats this subject, he drinks this subject, he watches tv because it might relate to the subject, he’s read every book on the subject that ahs been published since the invention of the printing press. Not only that but he has the same writing ability as dottie. But he has a depth, and consideration on this topic that few in the world could match, so he produced a book that is groundbreaking, and completely shakes up the world of philosophy, redefining the subject for everyone. He basically writes THE book, that everyone Is going to be studying for the next century whenever this topic comes up. 

If you decided to teach a class on the subject, which book would you choose to teach from? Gregs book or dotties? I think based on those fictional descriptions of books neither of them would ever write we would all choose greg’s book. 

The form of Cultural Marxism we are facing ignores the merit of gregs book, and says that because dottie Is albanian, even though her book isn’t as good, or ground breaking, or important to the subject, we should eliminate Gregs book, and ONLY allow everyone to read from Dotties book. Primarily because Dottie was born with certain genes. 

The definition of racism is prejudice, discrimination or antagonism directed against someone of a different race. The dictionary actually adds another sentence saying that essentially its only racism if you believe your race to be superior. But if you’re being prejudiced based on race, discriminating based on race, antagonizing people based on race, you’re being racist. You don’t have to believe you’re better than to be a racist. Hitler believed blonde hair blue eyed white people were superior. He was not blond, he did not have blue eyes, and he was half jewish – the group he hated most. He knew that he did not measure up to his ideal, and yet he hated people who were just like him, because of their ethnicity. Hitler was no less a racist for not thinking HE was superior. 

People today who are prejudicial, discriminatory, or antagonistic based simply on race are no less racists than hitler was. 

It isn’t Albanians that are the focus of this invasion. And we love everyone that walks through those doors regardless of race, or politics, or gender. 

The practice of cultural Marxism can best be expressed by a guy I went to school with. He wrote “white people need to quit their jobs, and stop publishing their books, and let people that are not white have them, and write them. Schools need to fire their white professors and give the jobs to people that are not white. Schools need to purge their libraries of books that were written by white professors. Professors need to purge their syllabi of any books that were written by white people. Even if those professors, or books are objectively better than the books written by any person of color”. Let me ask you this: does this discriminate based on race? Does it antagonize based on race? Is it prejudicial based on race? 

This most recent convention of the southern Baptists there was a resolution that was passed that talked about critical race theory, and intersectionality. The idea is that… well let me quote David Brooks who writes, "Two great belief systems are clashing here. The older liberals tend to be individualistic and meritocratic. A citizen's job is to be activist, compassionate, and egalitarian. Boomers generally think they earned their success through effort and talent”… But "The younger militants tend to have been influenced by the cultural Marxism that is now the lingua franca in the elite academy. Group identity is what matters. Society is a clash of oppressed and oppressor groups. People who are successful got that way through some form of group privilege and a legacy of oppression”.

If you are comfortable, they seem to argue, you are comfortable because you took advantage of people to get to that point. If you are uncomfortable, it is because the world, your boss, some other race, etc is taking advantage of you. Coupling this with the theory of intersectionality, which is the idea that the more ways in which you are a minority – gender, race, sexual orientation, the greater degree to which you have been taken advantage of. In this theory, for instance, if you are a white male, you are at the top of the heap. White female, you’re a close second. If you’re a male of color you’re below that depending on the color you happen to be, and if you’re a female of color you’re lower still, and if you’re gender confused handicapped, and a person of non-dominate ethnicity, you’re at the bottom and most oppressed, most taken advantage of, and they seem to conclude the most owed by society. A base assumption then is that all men are always taking advantage of all women all the time. All white men regardless of ethnicity, are taking advantage of all people of color all the time right alongside all women. All members of more dominate ethnicities are taking advantage of all members of less dominate ethnicities, and every ethnicity takes advantage of people of confused gender. 

This is nonsense, If you think about it you’ll see that. Think about your own actions, and this idea of intersectionality, are you actively trying to take advantage of everyone lower than you on the list always? Knowing most of you pretty well I don’t think any of you are the type to be actively trying to take advantage.

It goes at least one step further when it starts talking about truth. When you and I evaluate the truth of something what do we compare it to? Scripture. Under this world view, this paradigm experience is the arbiter of truth. Especially the experience of those that have been the victims of white priveledge. The more subjugated you are, the more truth you have experienced, the more truth you are experienced the more valuable your opinions are. This is similar to the error many catholics make when they elevate the words of the pope or tradition above scripture. What happens when people do that? Nothing but trouble. The jehovas witnesses do this, and they are a cult. The Mormons do this, and they are also a cult. The catholics do this as well. It is a sign of deep trouble, and bears the odor of hell. If a person finds ultimate truth outside of scripture they are walking down a dangerous path. 

What does the bible say about all of this? If you ask my friend, he would say Jesus wants whitey to quit or be fired. But what does the bible actually say? Like we read earlier gal 3:26-29 “for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. 27 For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. 28 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave[g] nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. 29 And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise.”

Someone open to acts 10:34-35 "God shows no partiality, but in every nation anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him."”

Someone open to Colossians 3:11 “"Here there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free; but Christ is all, and in all."

Someone open to acts 10:28

Someone open to rev 5:9-10

Someone open to Romans 10:12-13: "For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. 13 For "everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved."

This is the clear and consistent testimony of scripture – read Deuteronomy 10:17: "For the LORD your God is the God of gods and the Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God who does not show partiality nor take a bribe."

Those that adhere to this forget that our citizenship is not on earth. We are citizens of heaven here just for a short while. This whole world view forgets that we are just passing through and that what matters most isn’t the things of earth, but the things of heaven. Is your citizenship in heaven? Then a wonderful eternity awaits. If your citizenship is of earth then you have no hope. 

One day we are all going to be standing in front of God in heaven. What race we are doesn’t matter. What culture we are doesn’t matter. What color shoes, or what watch, or what computer, or what car we drive isn’t going to matter. The most important part is going to be whether or not we have a relationship with Jesus Christ. 

In Christ we are all equal. Slaves bought back off the auction block. Sinners condemned unclean except for the work of Christ. None of us are better or more deserving. But for the grace of God we would all be spending eternity in hell apart from Christ. 

As the praise team comes up and sings a final song, I want you to ask yourselves where your citizenship is? Are you a citizen of heaven? Or does your heart belong to the things of earth? If you aren’t a citizen of heaven, come talk to me after the service and I’ll show you in the bible how you can have eternal life. 