1 Timothy 4:1-5 Manuscript. 



















PRS6100 Bible Exposition I Online 
Hermeneutics and Preparation 
Spring 2020



















Ken Baker 000210914
4-26-20
Outline


Title: The Eternal Lumberjack and the Bird

MIT: The END is at hand, embrace God’s holiness in your life, and be available to foment it in others.
MIM: God wants you to be holy, and to help others grow in holiness.
Interrogative: Jesus paid for you with His blood, were you a good investment?
Vs 1: The Weight
Vs 2: The Mission
Vs 3-4: The Reason
Vs 5: The Way Forward
Sermon
He is Risen!! We are going to be in 2 Timothy 4:1-5 if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have. While you are turning there let’s talk about our people group of the week: Brahmin Telugu in India
The Telugu Brahmins are among the highest status peoples of southwest India. Brahmin means "one who knows God." As their names suggests, they speak the south Indian language of Telugu. They also speak Hindi and English. Some of the Telugu Brahmins have left the priesthood to pursue secular occupations such as being government officials, military leaders and business owners. Some Telugu today continue the traditional Brahmin roles as temple priests. Telugu Brahmins are also active in the arts as actors, filmmakers, musicians, and painters. Because they are part of the top caste, they have much to lose by leaving Hinduism. They are sort of shackled to it by their station. Christianity is seen as being for the poor and lower castes. Additionally, they could be shunned by the rest of the caste if they convert, so we need to pray that God will reach the leaders of this caste, to de-stigmatize Christianity in the eyes of the Brahmin Telugu. Dottie will you pray for the Brahmin Teulugu. 
I read a story this week. Actually, if you follow me on Facebook, you may have seen it. But its worth sharing again. The story is about this lumberjack chopping trees down in the forest as usual, until he comes across this one particular tree that has an especially beautiful bird just starting to build a nest in it. The lumber jack grabs a heavy hammer and starts striking the tree. Needless to say, it doesn’t take much disruption for the bird to fly to a different tree. The lumber jack watched the bird and chased it from a second tree. Five or six trees later, the bird makes its nest in the safety of the cleft of a rock on a hillside, where there are no trees marked for cutting. 
I imagine the bird thought the lumberjack was mean, or perhaps cruel. Chasing it away from every good spot it found for a long time. But the lumberjack was motivated by compassion. He knew what trees were going to be cut down, and he knew where the bird would be safe. He wanted the bird to build its next in a place where it would be safe from his axe. 
In the words of Ron Blue, lets talk to the author, and then let’s read His book. 
Read 2 Tim 4:1-5
We should know a little background here. I recently wrote a paper on this and came up with two full pages of background info. Were not going to dive that deep. But suffice it to say a lot was going on. Paul is in prison for the second time. If you skip ahead a few verses, you will see he thinks that, and in fact his death is imminent. So, this is his last chance to write to Timothy, and indeed, it’s the last book of the bible chronologically that he wrote. He’s about to be on trial in front of Nero, who was crazy, and murderous, and even had his own mother killed. In the midst of this nearly all of his friends have abandoned him. No one spoke up for him at the hearing. Paul writes that they cared more for the world than for Paul. Paul is isolated, and alone, and facing his own mortality. 
Timothy is like a son to him, and Paul calls him a son several times. They traveled on several missionary journeys together. Timothy runs his letters from here to there and back again. Timothy is loyal above all else, and Paul spends a lot of time talking about Timothy’s loyalty. Paul wants to squeeze everything he can into this letter to Timothy, because he probably will not get another chance to write. So, it’s with this poignant backdrop that Paul writes. Verse 1 says I charge you in the presence of God. This is no mere suggestion. If you were to look up the Greek word you would find its more like a command and demand than request. The English translation I charge you just falls short of everything the Greek is trying to communicate. In fact, the root of the word for “charge” here is the same word we get our word Martyr from. Paul’s tone is deadly serious. He chose to write in some of the most serious words he could. To add the most weight to it that he could. 
I have two little nieces that are social butterflies. They love people, and are outgoing, sweet, and cute. When they were little they would just run up to strangers and treat them like family. Which is sweet of them. But terrifying at the same time. So, we started telling them stranger danger stories. Some came from a book; some were psychology and counseling case studies. All were true as far as I know. But to add weight to the idea that some strangers are not OK, we spared no gory detail about kids being kidnapped, kept in bad circumstances, and sometimes killed. Nothing carnal. Just the scary gory details. It worked. After a half dozen stories, they learned to take their cue about strangers from a trusted adult. 
Just like we needed to add as much weight as we could to the stories so they would make an impact on the girls, Paul is trying hard to make this really hit home with Timothy, so he even brings God and Jesus into it. He commands, he charges them in the presence of God and Jesus. In verse 2 he drives home the urgency. Jesus will be judging the quick and the dead. Judgement is something the world doesn’t like to hear about these days isn’t it. I think mat 7 is probably the chapter of the bible that is most taken out of context. Two words: Judge not, are plucked out of the rest of the chapter. Jesus talks about Dogs, and bad builders, and pigs, and so forth. How can you tell a good builder from a bad builder without making a judgement? Its not about not judging, its about judging rightly, righteously, fairly, with love, and most importantly in accordance with the entire witness of scripture, and in so doing, know that we are going to be judged in return. How we handle that will reflect directly on Christians as a whole, and most importantly on God. 
Right now, the situation outside our homes calls for a lot of judgement. We must decide if it’s worth the risk to go to the store, and how much toilet paper to buy, we have to make judgement calls on which stores are going to be the safest, and when. We have to make judgement calls even about the holiday today – do we go see our loved ones on Easter or is it perhaps more loving to stay home? its hard to say. Judgements must be made about who to listen to, and who to trust. Do we trust WHO? The white house covid team? The media? Hah. Politicians? Ultimately their voices are not as important as whose voice (God’s voice). Be safe, be smart. Stay home when you can. But if God gives you an open door for the gospel, you need to walk through it. 
That’s what Paul means in verse three where he orders us to preach. This command starts at a point in the past and doesn’t stop until its fully completed. Maybe you’re thinking pastor, I don’t preach, I don’t get up there every week like you do and preach. But in truth we all preach. Every day. Every action, and every word that comes out of the mouth of a Christian is a sermon. If your life was the only sermon someone ever heard, would that be enough for them to know the gospel?  We must lead lives that bring glory to God, not shame and dishonor. Do you think Jesus would be proud of every action you took this past week? Do you think he would be proud of every word that came out of your mouth? For most of us the answer is embarrassing. Most of us have said or done something that would bring shame to our savior. Were all still human after all, thank the Lord we are forgiven. But still we should be striving for better next week than last right? Better tomorrow than today, and when we fall, we get back up and keep pressing towards the goal. 
Vs 3 also talks about being ready in season and out. Most of the time when I have heard these verses preached, they said you MUST be ready to preach when you’re ready, and when you’re not. But once again the Greek is deeper than that. In season could also be translated when its comfortable. That one is straight forward. If someone walks up to you and says please, tell me about Jesus! Most of us would be able to stand there and share at least the outline of the gospel. You’d be able to tell them that Jesus was born, lived a perfect life and was killed for our sins. He took the punishment we deserved on good Friday and rose again on Easter Sunday. He is risen! He will save us, if we ask. I think most of you could get that much out pretty easily at least. That would be fairly comfortable for most. Though I know a few of you are shy and would feel uncomfortable even with that much. Yet Paul takes it a step further. We must be ready in season and out. Out of season in Greek could also be translated as whether it be welcome or not or lacks opportunity. Paul commands us to preach, with our mouth, and with our lifestyle whether it’s comfortable or not, whether its welcome or not, and if there is not an opportunity to preach, you make one. God’s command doesn’t give a lot of room for equivocation. You either obey or not. You either preach, or you disobey. Why is this so important? Because people’s eternity is on the line. Jesus will judge the quick and the dead. This is talking about the end times, about revelation. Its talking about the end of things when Jesus stands there and judges’ people for their deeds. One day when you’re standing before Jesus, will the decisions you’ve made make Jesus proud? In the words of the old hymn, we owed a debt we could not pay, he paid a debt he did not owe. 
Paul gives us a series of commands at the end of that verse. He says “reprove, rebuke, and exhort”. Who can tell me what reprove means? I feel like most people have a feeling what the word reprove means but would have a hard time nailing down the definition. The Greek word here means to shine a light on, or to expose darkness. Rebuke likewise means to say something forcefully enough that it prevents someone from making a bad choice or stops them from continuing to make that same choice. Basically, Paul’s calling for judgement. Paul is asking us to take scripture (the light) and shine the light of scripture into the darkest recesses. Sort of like hand sanitizer. I saw a video a while back of just what you must do to make sure your hands are really clean. They put two white gloves on and covered one side of each of their gloves with black ink and rubbed their hands around like one might when washing. It was amazing the extent to which people must go to actually really clean their whole hands. 
Likewise, there are corners and pieces of our soul we try to hide, and some we are blind to. In order to grow we must be willing to take rebuke from our brothers and sisters sometimes. We must accept their biblical reproof. Now this doesn’t mean you should call everyone up right away and be like hey, your feet stink, and you’re a bad person. No, you need to speak the truth, but speak the truth in love. We are called to compare things to scripture, but it’s really scripture that does most of the judging.
Exhorting involves calling someone to come up along side you. You must be in a good place in order to do that. You must actively work at it to be in a good place. So, the biblical model is this. Let’s say we have a friend, and he’s strayed into having sex outside of marriage. Or maybe course and vulgar talk with the boys? Or a hundred things. He’s done something that scripture condemns. In doing so around the lost, he’s giving Christ a black eye. He’s making Christ look bad. That’s not his goal. But when he’s violating God’s commands about sex, he’s not thinking about Christ is he? So, what are we to do when our brother or sister stumbles in this way? We are to point them to the bible – and let the light of scripture have its sanitizing effects. Then we are to rebuke them. We are to speak forcefully and convincingly to them with the goal of helping them change their behavior, and finally we are to exhort them. Which starts with being in a healthy place on that issue to start with. If you are sleeping around, you won’t be able to speak with authority into the life of someone whose struggling in that way. So always be growing closer to Jesus, so you are able to be obedient to God’s command given through Paul here. Balance all of this with both Love, and sober-minded-ness vs 5. Because a time is coming, and I think now is vs 4, that people are going to seek out teachers that tell them what they want to hear. 
I have several friends who absolutely reject the idea that the corona virus is a risk for anyone. They go out, ignore stay at home orders, aren’t buying sanitizer for their hands, aren’t stocking up on groceries to limit their time at places like Walmart. They believe its fake, and that whatever may possibly happen from this virus, is less bad than what’s happening to the economy. With 1.8 billion unique monthly users, YouTube always has someone who says what people want to hear. IF you think the sky is not blue, that its actually paisley, there is a person on there that agrees with you and has a video. I could tell you stories about people and their belief in alien reptilian shape shifters… but the point is, its one thing to do this where the risk is the death of your body. This earth suit is a temporary dwelling. We are only using it for a short time, and then we spend eternity somewhere. Its one thing to risk someone’s body, and another to risk someone’s soul. What does your lifestyle say you believe about Jesus? what does that vape pen or cigarette say you believe about your body being a temple? What does your vulgar mouth and crude jokes say you believe about Jesus? 
God uses scripture in our lives the way the lumber jack used his hammer. He systematically chased the bird out of every place of shelter that bird thought he had, because every place that bird thought was safe, was death for the bird. The only people who can engage in sin over and over and over and over, and not have their consciences pricked are those who are lost. Its important Christians that you are in a strong place in your relationship with God. Because there are so many false teachers out there. The important thing isn’t so much what the guy says, but what God says. What God’s word says, and if you don’t know the authentic word of God, how are you going to recognize a fake? 
Its so important to be deeply immersed in God’s word. As his word shines a light in our sinful areas, as his word rebukes, and exhorts us to walk ever closer to Jesus. as we move closer to Christ, we change, and as we change for the better as we become closer to Christ, the world takes notice. They see we have a hope in dark times. They see we have as Paul says later in the chapter, an advocate – even when almost everyone you love abandons you. They see we have strength and confidence during uncertainty and chaos. Maybe they just see you have an extra roll of toilet paper and need to borrow it. Whatever the start of the conversation, be ready – especially today to tell them about Jesus. On good Friday – Jesus Christ, who was born in Nazareth, who lived a sinless life, was put to death on fake charges for crimes he hadn’t committed. In so doing, this sinless man – who was fully god and fully man, died on behalf of people who didn’t deserve it. He spent three long days in the grave. Part of Friday, all of Saturday and part of Sunday, before he rose again from the dead. In so doing he bought the right to set captives free. Which we desperately needed. Apart from Christ we are slaves to sin. Generally speaking, can a slave earn their freedom? No. It must be given to them. The devil isn’t going to do that, we can’t do it ourselves, so it was up to Jesus to purchase us back. That cost him his life, and in his resurrection, we have victory, and freedom, and have traded our slave rags for clothes that identify us as being part of Jesus family. We have traded a cruel master in sin, for loving and gracious father who loves us more than we can ever hope to understand in this life. And we gained eternal life with Jesus in heaven. Heaven is where everything truly holy, and pure and good goes. It’s the little bird’s cleft in the rock. Its security, and hope, and comfort, and peace, and forgiveness. There is nothing you can ever do that’s so bad that God can’t forgive you. And we can rest in that.  Scripture says in Romans 5:8-9 While we were yet sinner Christ died for us. His death has brought us eternal life. What we deserved according to Romans 6:23 is death – the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. If you have never heard how you can have eternal life in heaven from scripture, please stay behind after the service and talk to me. Message me on Facebook or give me a call. I’d love nothing more than to talk to you more about this. If you do not yet have confidence about what will happen after this life ends, please, talk to me today. Don’t let another day go by. 

Let’s close in prayer. 

Bibliography
Friberg, Timothy, Barbara Friberg, and Neva F. Miller. Analytical Lexicon of the Greek New Testament. Baker’s Greek New Testament Library. Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Books, 2000.

Freedman, David Noel, Gary A. Herion, David F. Graf, John David Pleins, and Astrid B. Beck, eds. The Anchor Yale Bible Dictionary. New York: Doubleday, 1992.

Lightfoot, J. B., Clement of Rome. The Apostolic Fathers, Part I: S. Clement of Rome: A Revised Text with Introductions, Notes, Dissertations, and Translations. Second Edition. Vol. 1. London; New York: Macmillan and Co., 1890.

Lightfoot, J. B. with Clement of Rome. The Apostolic Fathers, Part I: S. Clement of Rome: Introductions, Notes and Dissertations. Vol. 2. London; New York: Macmillan and Co., 1890.

Lightfoot, J. B. with Ignatius and Polycarp. The Apostolic Fathers, Part II: S. Ignatius, S. Polycarp: Revised Texts with Introductions, Notes, Dissertations, and Translations. Second Edition. Vol. 1. London; New York: Macmillan and Co., 1889.

Elwell, Walter A., and Barry J. Beitzel. Baker Encyclopedia of the Bible. Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Book House, 1988.

Water, Mark. The Christian Book of Records. Alresford, Hants, UK: John Hunt Pub., 2002.

Eusebius of Caesarea. An Ecclesiastical History to the 20th Year of the Reign of Constantine. London: Samuel Bagster and Sons, 1847.

The Holy Bible: English Standard Version. Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles, 2016.

Leschert, Dale. The Flow of the New Testament. Fearn, Great Britain: Christian Focus Publications, 2002.

Arndt, William, Frederick W. Danker, Walter Bauer, and F. Wilbur Gingrich. A Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament and Other Early Christian Literature. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2000.

Bromiley, Geoffrey W., ed. The International Standard Bible Encyclopedia, Revised. Wm. B. Eerdmans, 1979–1988.

International Standard Version. Yorba Linda, CA: ISV Foundation, 2011.

Tranquillus, C. Suetonius. Suetonius: The Lives of the Twelve Caesars; An English Translation, Augmented with the Biographies of Contemporary Statesmen, Orators, Poets, and Other Associates. Edited by Alexander Thomson. Medford, MA: Gebbie & Co., 1889.

MacArthur, John F., Jr. The MacArthur Study Bible: New American Standard Bible. Nashville, TN: Thomas Nelson Publishers, 2006.

Nestle, Eberhard, Erwin Nestle, Barbara Aland, Kurt Aland, Johannes Karavidopoulos, Carlo M. Martini, and Bruce M. Metzger. The Greek New Testament. 27th ed. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft, 1993.

Aland, Kurt, Barbara Aland, Johannes Karavidopoulos, Carlo M. Martini, and Bruce M. Metzger. Novum Testamentum Graece. 28th Edition. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft, 2012.

New American Standard Bible: 1995 Update. La Habra, CA: The Lockman Foundation, 1995.

Wood, D. R. W., and I. Howard Marshall. New Bible Dictionary. Leicester, England; Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press, 1996.

The New International Version. Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan, 2011.

Lea, Thomas D., and David Alan Black. The New Testament: Its Background and Message. 2nd ed. Nashville, TN: Broadman & Holman Publishers, 2003.

Utley, Robert James. Paul’s Fourth Missionary Journey: I Timothy, Titus, II Timothy. Vol. Volume 9. Study Guide Commentary Series. Marshall, Texas: Bible Lessons International, 2000.

Hawker, Robert. Poor Man’s New Testament Commentary: Philippians–Revelation. Vol. 3. Bellingham, WA: Logos Bible Software, 2013.

Sproul, R. C., ed. The Reformation Study Bible: English Standard Version (2015 Edition). Orlando, FL: Reformation Trust, 2015.

Pentz, Croft M. Sermon Outlines on the Epistles: Galatians–II Timothy. Dollar Sermon Library Series. Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Book House, 1971.

Elwell, Walter A., and Philip Wesley Comfort. Tyndale Bible Dictionary. Tyndale Reference Library. Wheaton, IL: Tyndale House Publishers, 2001.

Vincent, Marvin Richardson. Word Studies in the New Testament. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1887.

               Berchie, Daniel. n.d. “2 TIMOTHY 4:14: REPAYING THE ENEMY IN GHANAIAN 
       CONTEXT,” 10.

       Berding, Kenneth. n.d. “POLYCARP OF SMYRNA’S VIEW OF THE AUTHORSHIP OF 
       1 AND 2 TIMOTHY,” 13. https://doi.org/10/dhn9t2.

               Couser, Greg A. 2019. “The Believer’s Judgment in 2 Timothy, Part 1.” Bibliotheca Sacra   
       176 (703): 312–26. https://search-ebscohost-com.ezproxy.sebts.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lsdar&AN=ATLAi5IE190924000537&si
te=ehost-live&scope=site.

      Discourse Analysis and Other Topics in Biblical Greek. 1995. Bloomsbury Academic. 
https://doi.org/10.5040/9781474266673;http://web.archive.org/web/20200410140256/https://www.bloomsburycollections.com/book/discourse-analysis-and-other-topics-in-biblical-greek/.

     Downs. 2012. “Faith(Fulness) in Christ Jesus in 2 Timothy 3:15.” Journal of Biblical   
     Literature 131 (1): 143. https://doi.org/10/ggrm2t.

     Hutson. 1997. “Was Timothy Timid? On the Rhetoric of Fearlessness (1 Corinthians 16:10-
     11) and Cowardice (2 Timothy 1:7).” Biblical Research 42: 58–73.

     MaGee, Gregory S. 2008. “Paul’s Response to the Shame and Pain of Imprisonment in 2    
     Timothy.” Bibliotheca Sacra 165 (659): 338–53. https://search-ebscohost-com.ezproxy.sebts.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lsdar&AN=ATLA0001666747&site=ehost-live&scope=site.

     Murphy-O’Connor, Jerome. 1991. “2 TIMOTHY CONTRASTED WITH 1 TIMOTHY AND 
     TITUS.” Revue Biblique 98 (3): 403–18. https://search-ebscohost-com.ezproxy.sebts.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lsdar&AN=ATLA0000860386&site=ehost-live&scope=site.

     Polythress, Vern Sheridan. 2002. “The Meaning of Μάλιστα in 2 Timothy 4:13 and Related  
     Verses.” The Journal of Theological Studies 53 (3): 523–32. https://search-ebscohost-
com.ezproxy.sebts.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lsdar&AN=ATLA0001390712&site=ehost-live&scope=site.

     Thornton, Dillon T. 2016. Hostility in the House of God: An Investigation of the Opponents in 
     1 and 2 Timothy. Bulletin for Biblical Research Supplements 15. Winona Lake, IN: 
     Eisenbrauns.

Exported from Logos Bible Software, and Zotero 2:27 AM April 11, 2020.

