First of all thank you for coming, those of us that knew Granny – that knew ann loved her dearly. She was quick to smile, and her smile could light up a room. She loved the Lord, and always made sure her kids made it to church. I had the priveledge of being her pastor the last little bit of her life. I’d always ask her how Martha, and Sylvia, or Carl and Ashley were doing. She’d smile, and say they were doing good, or sometimes she’d say she was proud of them.  The last time I visited with her, her health was struggling, and I said Ann, were all adults here, we all know that one day were going to take one last breath, and that might be not too far off for you Ann, so I have to ask. When you take that last breath, do you know where you’re going to go? 

She responded with more force than I’ve seen her respond to anything in a while, and she said “yes! I’ve been waiting to go there and be with Jesus for a long time”. “I’m ready!” she declared. I just want all my family to be there too. Her last words to me have shaped my preparations for today. If you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have Open with me to Ecclesiastes 3:1-8. I’m reading from the English Standard translation today. 

I struck me that there are Atleast 3 seasons, or times we need to talk about today. Granny’s time, our Time, and God’s time.

Granny KNEW her time here on earth was wearing thin. She knew her body was wearing out. She may have forgotten that moment to moment, but she knew that in her heart, and she was ready for what comes next. The bible talks in a number of places about heaven and I want to give you a little glimpse of where she’s at now. Scripture talks about how the streets are paved with Gold, and the gates are made of pearl. More importantly than that, it talks about how we Get a new body. So for granny, no more struggling to get around. No more walker. No more difficulty eating. No more sickness, or sadness, or pain. I imagine the first thing she did when she got there was went and found her savior. 

Scripture says two things that sometimes people think conflict – It says there will be no sadness in heaven, but it also says God will wipe away every tear that shed. If there is no sadness, and I believe the bible when it says that, then these tears being shed are tears of Joy. And her savior is there to wipe them from her face. To give her hugs, and say “well done my good and faithful servant“. Willie mentioned that anns life was marked by her efforts to make sure her kids grew up in church, to make sure her kids knew the lord, and she spent a number of years as a teacher of other peoples kids – telling them about Jesus.  

For Ann this new season or time of her life is one of rejoicing, happiness and peace. IF she were here today, she would tell you not to mourn for her, she’s happy, and secondly, she’d say I’d better see you here too one day. 

Which brings me to our season. Our time. Its hard losing someone we love. My grandmother passed away a number of years ago, and her death was something that deeply affected me, even though I knew beyond the shadow of a doubt that I would see her again. Her favorite verse and one of anns favorite verses were the same – Proverbs 3:5-6 Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding, in all your ways acknowledge him and he will make strait your path. 

That’s one of those things that is sometimes easier to say than to live. But I think Ann lived it. She knew what came next, she knew she was going to pass, and she was ready to meet her savior. 

For those of us left behind, it is indeed a sad thing. Sad because we miss them. But for those of us who believe in Jesus Christ as our Lord and savior, death is not the end. Death is merely so long, see you again soon. Paul wrote 1 cor 15:55“Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting?”  In Jesus we have victory over death. Because We can KNOW that we KNOW that we KNOW we will see ann again, we can allow hope to begin to fill that void in our hearts that Ann used to fill. We can allow God’s love to fully us. We can Rest in the hope, and the promise of the future not only in that we get to see ann again, but in that we can be with our savior in heaven. A place where the only tears shed are those of joy. 

I asked myself what ann would want from us at this time of grieving, and healing. I think she would want us to celebrate because shes with her heavenly father. Celebrate because shes not trapped inside a failing body any more. Celebrate because where she is we can also go. 

So we’ve talked about Granny, and the time or season shes experiencing, and briefly about the season we’re going through without Granny. Now lets talk about the season God wants us to experience. 

Firstly, even in this midst of death, God has good plans for us. There is hope, there is a future. God is directing those steps. Jeremiah wrote for I know the plans I have for you, plans for your good, plans to give you hope and a future. This was as true for granny as it is for us. 

Even when things seem the most bleak, God has something good instore for us. What does it mean that he has a good plan for us? I think it stems from who God is. Scripture says that God is good. It means simply that God is not evil, he does not love sin. He cannot be corrupted or enticed into sinning. Goodness is as far from evil as the east is from the west. Divine goodness goes hand in hand with divine justice. God because he is good, is also just. But he is also kind. One of the ways he shows us his goodness is through his kindness. 

Because of our inclination towards sin. Because of our love to sin, there is only one thing that we deserve from God, and that is an eternity separate from God. IF God is good, and good and evil are as far apart as you can get, then to be apart from God is to be stewing in evil. If you want to know what Hell is like, imagine the opposite of God. If God is compassionate, in hell will be all of the cruelty that our enemy can muster. If God is perfect justice, hell will be all the injustice our enemy can muster. If God is love, hell will contain all the hate our enemy can muster. 

It is kindness then that God offers to us his unconditional love. It is mercy that he gives it to us without our being able to deserve it on our own. It is because of God’s goodness that we have breath in our lungs, and light in our eyes, and scent in our noses. Its God’s goodness that we have sunrises and sunsets and other beautiful works of God’s hands to enjoy. Its God’s kindness when we have food on the table, and good fellowship with loved ones. Its God’s goodness that allowed someone as wonderful as Ann in our lives. Its God’s Goodness that brought her home to a place where she can walk with ease once more. Where she can hug the necks of those she’s loved and lost who are in Christ. Its because of God’s goodness that we can see ann again one day in the presence of our Savior Jesus. 

I’ve mentioned Jesus as savior and sin a couple times. 

Lets expand on that a bit. 

Sin is anything we do that displeases God. So lets look at a couple of the ten commandments. The Ten Commandments are just a beginning. To reach heaven apart from Jesus Christ, there are hundreds of laws that would have to be kept. But lets just look at this small subset that the bible records for us in Exodus 20. Lets start with the third commandment which says “you shall not take the Lords name in vein. Its surprisingly common these days to hear people exclaim the name of our Lord as a curse. My little nieces tried it a few times. I’ve heard parents use it “whats wrong with you! Followed by the first name of Christ. Its even reached popularity in chat speak – people write omg all the time which stands for oh my god. I’m guessing all of us have violated this third commandment. That means each and everyone of us are blasphemers. 

Lets jump to another one – ever disobeyed your parents? Even once? Disobedient!

Only two commandments in and were disobedient blasphemers. 

What about taking a cookie from the cookie jar when you know your not supposed to? Or maybe this is showing my age, but you remember how they used to have those bulk candies for sale at the grocery store? Ever eaten one of those without paying for it? Then we are thieves as well. Blaspheming, disobedient thieves. Next up is hatred. Ever been so angry with someone you told yourself you hated them? I know I have. You know what the bible says? If you hate your brother, you’re guilty of murder in god’s eyes. Blaspheming, Disobedient, thieves who have committed murder in their heart. That’s only four commandments, I think we get the idea. When we are compared to the perfect, and holy and righteous standard of God, we fall short. We are incapable of measuring up. The bible says this. 

Turn with me to romans 3:23 – for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. That’s exactly what we have just been talking about. We couldn’t even get through four of the commandments without being murderous thieves and disobedient blasphemers. There are 611 laws in the old testament, we couldn’t get through four. I’m still human, I’ve done these things too. These things are just as true of me as they are of you. 

Ephesians 2:8-9 says for its by grace you have been saved, and through faith. This not of your self, it’s the gift of God lest any man should boast. 

So basically there is nothing we can do about it on our own. Its like this (visual gospel). 

As a result, Romans 6:23 – turn there with me – says the wages of sin is death. 

So we all have this sin, all of us, that we can do nothing about on our own. Though we try to be better, even one single sin is enough to separate us from God. The payment we deserve for our life spent sinning is death. Is eternity separated from God. And theres nothing you or I can do about it on our own. 

That’s some pretty heavy bad news. But the Good news that Ann wanted to make sure you heard today was that 2000 years ago God sent his son Jesus to pay that price for us on the cross. We deserved death. But he died on our behalf. He was nailed to a cross. I wont get too graphic, but it was arguably the most horrific way man has devised to kill another man. After his time on the cross, he was buried, and guarded by roman soldiers. Three days later he rose again from the dead. Where o death is your sting? There were more than 500 recorded witnesses. People saw him walking through walls, and doing things only God can do. 

Point is this people, Jesus is the only one that’s been to heaven, and come back to tell us how to get there. It says in romans 10:9-10 that if you confess with your mouth the Lord jesus Christ, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. 

I’d like you all to close your eyes and bow your heads for a moment. Let me ask you this, by show of hands, with no one looking. How many of you know that you know that you know that when you take your last breath you’ll wake up in heaven with Jesus, with Ann? 

If you don’t, and you would like to one day Go to heaven, and be with Jesus, I’m going to invite you to pray this prayer with me. In fact those of you that are already Christians, I want you to say it outloud as well. 

Dear Jesus, I know I’m a sinner. I know I have fallen short of your standard. I know that what I deserve is death and separation from you, but that you are offering me an alternative. I believe that you died for my sins. I your word, and that you rose again three days later. So Jesus I put my trust in you, that one day when I take my last breath I’ll wake up in heaven. Thank you for adopting me as one of your children. Thank you for saving me. In jesus name I Pray. Amen. 

With every head still bowed, and every eye still closed, if you prayed that prayer for the first time and meant it, please stick your hand in the air. 

I see your hand, thank you. Ok, you can open your eyes again. If you prayed that prayer for the first time and meant it, today I know you’ll have made Ann proud. But I also encourage you to talk to your family about the decision you made today, or come talk to me. Its important that you find a church, doesn’t have to be my church. But some church that believes in the word of God, and can help you learn more about the one that died for you. I’


