We are jumping ahead an article in the baptist faith and message this week. We would have covered last things, but the published Baptist view on these things is a more nuanced version of “one day things are going to end, all we know is it will all pan out in the end”. So until I’m ready to go through all of that, I think we will just jump ahead to Evangelism and Missions. Which is a subject I like to talk about. We will come back to last things. But it’s going to be a while. 

Were going to be in ______________ this morning and while you’re turning there we will talk about our people group of the week. 

Today we are going to spend some time in prayer for the Tarkahn of Pakistan. They are part of the Punjabi tribe of western Pakistan. Near as we can tell there are about 3 million Tarkahn in Pakistan, and not a single believer in Jesus Christ in their midst. Reaching them is complicated by Pakistan being difficult to gain entrance to, and difficult terrain inside the country. The people are largely comprised of carpenters and other artisans. However they have made a name for themselves when it comes to fighting and warfare. In order for someone to reach these people because of the closed nature of Pakistan, the would need to find a need – such as providing clean water or western medicine, and meet it. Short of something along those lines they aren’t going to let one of us in. So we need to pray for God to raise up people that can meet the physical and spiritual needs of the people in Pakistan. That they would be successful in sharing the gospel and see many lost people won to Christ. 

Pray

Our Baptist faith and message says this about Missions and Evangelism. 

XI. Evangelism and Missions
It is the duty and privilege of every follower of Christ and of every church of the Lord Jesus Christ to endeavor to make disciples of all nations. The new birth of man's spirit by God's Holy Spirit means the birth of love for others. Missionary effort on the part of all rests thus upon a spiritual necessity of the regenerate life, and is expressly and repeatedly commanded in the teachings of Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ has commanded the preaching of the gospel to all nations. It is the duty of every child of God to seek constantly to win the lost to Christ by verbal witness undergirded by a Christian lifestyle, and by other methods in harmony with the gospel of Christ.

Genesis 12:1-3; Exodus 19:5-6; Isaiah 6:1-8; Matthew 9:37-38; 10:5-15; 13:18-30, 37-43; 16:19; 22:9-10; 24:14; 28:18-20; Luke 10:1-18; 24:46-53; John 14:11-12; 15:7-8,16; 17:15; 20:21; Acts 1:8; 2; 8:26-40; 10:42-48; 13:2-3; Romans 10:13-15; Ephesians 3:1-11; 1 Thessalonians 1:8; 2 Timothy 4:5; Hebrews 2:1-3; 11:39-12:2; 1 Peter 2:4-10; Revelation 22:17.

I’ve Heard of an odd trend lately. There are “missions” trips being adverized to the financially comfortable to get them to go work in an orphanage, or do something definitely philanthropic but not really missions related. A missions trip, and a missionary are doing what they do to tell lost people about Christ. If you are only going to feed the hungry – that’s good. But its not missions work. If you’re only going to build walls for a school, that’s good. But it doesn’t make you a missionary any more than sitting in a garage makes you a truck. A missionary once told me that being a missionary means living like you should any way but in another country. This necessarily involves evangelism. 

I was watching Southeasterns Convocation this week, and they asked a packed chapel whomever has shared the gospel in the last four months please stand up. Almost directly in front of the camera were three young men who I suspect were regretting their choice to sit in front of the camera. Pretty much everyone else in the room stood, while those young men remained seated. Being active in sharing the gospel is pretty much a requirement for seminary. As part of your application you have to talk about how often you share the gospel, with whom, and how it went. It talks about the schools expectation that students be involved in sharing the gospel. I admire their bravery and honesty in sitting there. I also noticed Danny Akin from his perch on the stage looking to see if there were any that didn’t stand for that. I suspect they get called to his office for a conversation later. 

But before you start thinking evangelism is only for pastors or missionaries. Evangelism is for everyone. Who here knows the great commission off the top of your head? 

Its in the bible five times, anyone? I’ll take any of the five?
Were going to briefly look at all five this morning. Open your bibles to MT. 28:18-20. 
    Matthew 28:18-20 18 Then Jesus came to them and said, “All authority in heaven and earth has been handed over to me. 19 Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 20 teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.
Mark 16:15-18 15 And he said to them, “Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation. 16 Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned. 17 And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak in new tongues; 18 they will pick up serpents with their hands; and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover.
Luke 24:45-49 45 Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures, 46 and said to them, “Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead, 47 and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. 48 You are witnesses of these things. 49 And behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you. But stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high.”
John 20:21-23 21 Jesus said to them again, “Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you.” 22 And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, “Receive the Holy Spirit. 23 If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them; if you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld.”
Acts 1:8 8 But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.
 Before we start digging deep into these verses, lets start by figuring out who Jesus is talking to. 

In Mt it says “And Jesus said to them” whose them? The disciples right? 
Mk 16:15 “and he said to them” Whose them? The disciples. 
Luke 24:46 and he opened their minds and said to them: Whose them? The disciples. 
John 20:21 “Jesus said to them again” whose them? The disciples. 
Acts 1:8 But you will receive power when the holy spirit comes upon you. 

Who receives power, when? The disciples when the holy spirit comes upon them. 

What is a disciple, a follower of Christ? A mature Christian is one who is said to have been discipled, and is capable of making disciples on their own. Holy Spirit enters into the believer at the moment of salvation. So all believers have had the holy spirit come upon them. I think its safe to say this great commission, one of the last recorded commands of Christ before his death applies to us today as well. 

So next time you want us to pray for your lost friend, lets pray for your lost friend, but we need to be praying for you too, because maybe, just maybe God put you in that lost friends life so you could share the gospel with that person. 

Maybe you are the only bible your lost friend has ever read. 

Maybe you are all of what they know about Christianity. 

Evangelism is a tremendous priveledge and blessing to those that participate. Its also terribly easy to neglect. Most people when asked say they don’t know how to share the gospel. 

Have you guys ever heard of a man named Frances Schaefer? He was a that started people thinking about returning to what scripture says. He had a retreat center in Switzerland and he would bring pastors and so forth up to visit and be discipled. To have a chance to rest and relax and be rejuvenated with the preaching of the word. He deeply impacted almost everyone that is in active ministry in the several generations preceeding mine. The missions organization I was with for a while – it seemed like everyone had been directly impacted by him personally, and his books, and now his daughter that teaches in his place. 

Any way this one time he was asked if he had an hour to share the gospel with someone, what would he say: “I would spend the first fifty-five minutes explaining man’s bondage to sin and his state before a holy God before explaining the gospel itself in the remaining five minutes”. 

Who can tell me about mans bondage to sin? What do we bring to our salvation? What are we apart from Christ? What chapter and verse spells this out pretty clearly (Eph 2). 

Then you simply share the gospel – I like to use romans 3:23, romans 6:23, romans 5:8-9, john 3:16, eph 2:8-9 – though the whole chapter is fantastic. Romans 10:9-10 is where I close things up. 

It isn’t the words you say in the pray that saves someone, its that God has been at work in their heart, and they want to follow him. It’s the changes God has already begun to work in their heart and their life that saves them. The good news about that, if God is already working in their heart, than there is nothing you can say that will stop that process, and if he hasn’t all you can do is be obedient and share with them any way. What they are rejecting is not you. Its Jesus. What they are fighting against when they say they don’t want to go to church isn’t you. Its Jesus. But its still important that they hear the gospel. For one thing, you and I can’t know in whom Christ has been working or not. You never know. Secondly we have been commanded by our savior to be involved in this ministry of finding those lost people in whom he’s begun working. We have to find them, we have to tell them about Jesus. 

Lets look at this from a different perspective. You all have or have had kids at one point right? How would you feel about a child you’d told to do something five times, and yet they continue to sit there on the couch and disobey? How are we any different when we neglect or refuse to share the gospel? 

Jesus himself said “Go therefore”. He didn’t say uhm, by the way if you have time. He didn’t say when its convenient, he didn’t say when you want to. If you feel like it. He didn’t say If work isn’t too hard would you mind doing something for me? He said Go. He didn’t say Go after work. He said Go. You need to be telling people about Christ AT work. He didn’t say Go if you’re healthy. You need to be telling everyone you encounter about Christ, every illness is an opportunity to share the gospel with someone you might not encounter in any other way. If you’re in the hospital, maybe youre there to share the gospel with your nurse, maybe your doctor? Maybe your surgeon. Maybe your sickness isn’t about you, maybe its about sharing the gospel with a lost person. Maybe God’s calling you to be a missionary at your job. Maybe you’re meant to be a missionary at the hospital, and that’s why you’re sick. 

He didn’t say maybe. He said Go. He didn’t say Go while you’re young. You should go while youre young, but in the greek you can look at verbs, and some verbs mean start now and go for a little while. Some verbs mean it happened and has been completed, and some verbs mean start now, and keep going, don’t stop. Ever. 

When Jesus said Go, which verb do you think he used? How long do you think he expects us to Go for? Were talking about heaven and hell here people. If God says Go, isn’t that more important than anything else in our lives? 

If I were to ask the same question they asked in the convocation chapel, how many of us would be able to stand and say they have shared the gospel intentionally with someone recently. Would you be like those three boys in front of the camera? Or would you be able to stand because you’ve been obedient to Jesus direct command to Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 20 teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.

As the praise team comes up to sing a final song. I want you to think about the people in your life. Those you know are saved, and those you know that aren’t. Do the people you know that are saved share the gospel? If not part of the great commission is to teach them to obey all that Christ commanded. You have a duty and a privilege to those people to Go. Think about the lost people that you know, or those you’re not sure of. You have the privilege of telling them the best news they ever can or will hear. But you have to Go. 

Normally at this point, I saw won’t you come. But today, I plead with you, won’t you go. 

