I heard a story this week about a famous Christian of centuries past. Despite being a Christian he had become depressed to the point where he had decided to take his own life. He planned it out, he bought some poison, went home and in the night drank it down. He expected to die, but one of his friends turned up out of the blue, connected the dots, got the doctor there who was able to reverse the effects of the poison and save the guys life. Later that day when he came back around he decided he would cast himself into the Thames river which was around the corner from his home. He ordered a coach to come pick him up, and decided to jump. But the coach driver saw what he was doing, connected the dots, and held him back, and returned him to his home. He decided at that point he was going to fall on his knife and thus end his life. But when he fell, the knife broke and left him little more than scratched. Dude can’t even die. So  he went outside into the barn, gathered a length of rope, tied a noose and hung himself. But he didn’t make the rope quite right, and it merely strangled him instead of breaking his neck. Before he ran out of air a friend came in and was able to get him down before he died. His friend told him to read his bible, he ended up reading Romans 8, where he truly met God for the first time. Later he wrote this – which might be familiar to some of you:

God moves in mysterious ways his wonders to perform, 
he plants his footsteps in the sea and rides along the storm. 
Deep, Deep and unfathomably minds of never failing skill 
he treasures up his bright design and works his sovereign will. 

I don’t think there is a single person in existence that hasn’t experienced discouragement. In fact statistically many if not most of us will experience depression at least once over the course of our lives. Even Christians sometimes end up in that place sometimes. Kuyper from our story tonight sure did. Another famous Christian named Mueller did as well. He ran orphanages, he cared for the sick, and dying, for widows. He fed thousands and shared the gospel with tens of thousands. But never felt like he had done enough, never felt like he was sufficient for the task(s) at hand. Never felt like he was doing enough. 

We read about Isaiah last week who had some of the same feelings of inadequacy and discouragement. All of these men seem to circle back to the same question that Moses is going to ask in our passage tonight. A question – if we are honest with ourselves most of us have asked as well. The question is why. 

A pastor I like was preaching recently and he said when you’re asking why, God introduces himself. We see that today in our passage, read with me Exodus 5:22-6:13.

So leading up to this point, We all know the story of moses. He was born to some Hebrew people in Egypt during a time of Hebrew slavery. The Egyptians were afraid of the growing power of the Hebrews so they put them in slavery. Yet their numbers continued to rise. The threat continued to grow, so it got to a point where Pharoah ordered all the sons of the Israelite people, of the Hebrew people to be killed. It was around this time that Moses was born. So in fear for his life he was put in a basket, and set to float down the river. Mothers can you imagine the fear you would have to have felt to think your child is better off at the mercies of a river than left in your own care? I think they must have had a ton of faith in God, and probably had a good idea of when and where the princess was going to be when they let the child float free. Whats more I think the princess must have had a good idea the child was not Egyptian. But any way, Moses was rescued by the royal family, raised with all the priveledges, education, and opportunity afforded to a king of the most powerful nation on earth at the time. He was trained in the same way any future pharaoh might have been. At some point he figures out where he’s from, and which people are his. He connects the dots. He sees one of his countrymen being abused and he beats the slave master to death. 

Even a prince of the realm is still subject to its laws, and so he flees into the desert, to the midianites. He starts life over, as a pauper. Finds a wife, and has children. And then one day God calls him back into Egypt. Long story Short, God tells him to march into Pharoah’s chambers and tell him to let his people go. Moses was afraid, he felt inadequate as a public speaker. He felt like he wasn’t up to the task that God had called him to. But he takes his cousin aaron and obeys God. Marches into Pharoahs court throws wide the doors and demands in front of everyone that Pharoah let his people God. 

Pharoah basically laughs at him and makes life more miserable for the Israelites. You want me to let your people go? Fine. They can work later, harder, without straw. They can make my bricks without straw. 

That’s about where we found moses tonight. His every effort was thwarted, his obedience to God made life more difficult. His own people wouldn’t follow him, and Pharoah sort of mocked his requests. 

So here moses is, vs 22, in the slough of despond, asking God why. 

have you ever read pilgrims progress? Its an allegory to life, and follows a man named “Christian”. He meets a man named evangelist who points him towards the path. But along the way Christian was talking and not paying attention and fell into the slough of despair. He struggles, and struggles and finally is sent a helper to get him out. 

Bunyon describes the slough like this: 'This miry Slough is such a place as cannot be mended; it is the descent whither the scum and filth that attends conviction for sin doth continually run, and therefore is it called the Slough of Despond: for still as the sinner is awakened about his lost condition, there ariseth in his soul many fears, and doubts, and discouraging apprehensions, which all of them get together, and settle in this place; and this is the reason of the badness of this ground

The scum and filth that comes with conviction of sin. Apart from Christ we are blind to our sin and wretchedness. Were unable to see just how bad we truly are. Its like those who are blind suddenly being able to see the world in all its wonder and horror. When people truly see they are dreadfully sinful, that they only thing they have contributed to their salvation is the sin that made it necessary they often fall into the slough. 

For long time Christians the trap is little different. The more clearly we see God, the more clearly we see how much further we have to go. The more we survey with clear eyes the depths of our own depravity and the distance between where we are and where God wants us to be, or the length and breadth of the task at hand and the limited contribution we have spent the years of our lives making, that can lead us to falling into this slough. The same slough Moses is in, The same one Isaiah was in last week. The same one I’m sure hosea was in. Or Jeremiah. Or Mueler, or Kuyper. 

The same one we can fall into when we hear our kids are struggling, hurting, and away from God. 

So what does God say to Moses, how does he respond to Moses plea from this slough of despond? He says: I am the Lord. 

You may remember I quoted Steven Davey earlier, when you ask God why, he usually responds by introducing himself. Whats he do here? I am God he says 7 times between chapter 4 and 7. He reminds them they have a covenant with him. That they are his people. That he will deliver them from slavery. That he has hope for them, and a future. A promised land. 

Maybe that’s you today, and you’re hurting and worried about your kids, or for any reason you find yourself in the slough of despond. I want you guys to stop and think for a moment what God has brought you through thus far. 

Most recently was the hurricane. Most of us in this room thought we would return to our homes to find a debris field. Any of you have that happen? No? That was God at work in our life. That was the hand of God resting on our homes and protecting them from the storm. I am absolutely 100% convinced that is exactly what happened with my home during Irma last year. I’ve told most of you the story, but just as a reminder. The morning we evacuated for Irma my dog died. We buried her up on a little hill, under a tree. Afterwards I packed up the small list of things that are irreplaceable, and put them in my truck. Just before I left, I thought, you know. I should check the hurricane straps on my 10 x 40 mobile home. Just to make sure they are secure. 

They weren’t. One was almost completely rusted through. I was stunned. But I accepted it, I prayed to God and said Lord, this house is yours, you’ve let me live here for nearly 10 years, and I would love to live here for many many more. But if its your will that it should be taken from me, then I’ll praise you. But if its your will for it to remain, than I’ll praise you still. I have a little weather station mounted on a pole in my front yard. Every where around my house there were winds of over a hundred miles an hour, winds that should have destroyed a 10 x 40 mobile home with bad tie downs. Should have at least tipped it over. But you know what? My little weather station only felt winds of 30 or 40 miles an hour. What else is that but the hand of God. 

There are two big trees at either end of my house, one lost several limbs. Two of the limbs were big enough to crush my house, but somehow they fell into the wind and away from my house. One landed on my porch, and damaged it, but only a little. 

So when you’re faced with the Storm, when your struggling with WHY God is allowing you to go through these things, look back at what the Lord has brought you through, so that you can have faith going forward. Confidence in the Lords work going forwards. 

Dottie has quite a story of what the Lord has brought her through. She nearly died. Shattered leg in a freak accident fixed with a hypoallergenic metal rod that she ended up being allergic to. Caused a massive infection that nearly killed her, so they put her on antibiotics to stop the infection, but those nearly killed her too. They said that she would never walk, then that she would need a cane for the rest of her life, but do you see her with a cane? Certainly not. Why? Because God is able. Because he is God. I am God, he says to Moses 7 times. Its as though he’s saying just because you can’t see it right now does not mean I am not at work. God has plans and sometimes those plans involve bringing us to a place where we have to surrender to him. To give up. To submit fully to him. When we start asking God HOW, I think that’s when he shows us his power. Moses Asks how in vs 12, and in the very next Chapter God says I’ve got this. Let me show you a little bit of the plan. 

I’m going to harden his heart and make things so bad for the Egyptians that when you leave, they are going to give you silver and Gold, and food, and supplies for your journey home. Trump says “were going to build the wall, and mexico is going to pay for it”. God did basically that here – Fully outfitted expedition for 3 million people, and their slave masters paid for it. 

It wasn’t until moses stopped asking why, and started asking how that things changed though. 

Why is a question we all ask from time to time, but it strikes me why is a self centered question. Its not so much the why, as the rest of the words that follow. When we ask why, don’t we usually add “is this happening to me” “Why me” Why not someone else. We ask Why because our focus in on our self. I’ve said it before, but the word I is the root of all sin. I want, I think I need, I feel, all these things are at the heart of the sinful actions we take. I want to be more comfortable, well that can be idolatry. I want to be more secure can be too. I don’t want to depend on God to take care of my food needs, so I am going to steal. I don’t want to depend upon God for my happiness and enjoyment, so I’m going to drink, do drugs, have sex outside of marriage… You see where I’m going? I think Why is a phase we have to go through, and is a step as part of our growth, but its important not to get stuck there. 

When you ask God How, you assume he has a plan, you have accepted your role in it. Ok God I followed you, and now I’ve slipped into this slough and I don’t know how to get out, but I know you have a plan, and I can trust you. In pilgrim’s progress, when Christian came to that point, help came and pulled him out. Pointed him towards God, and sent him on his way. 

Maybe you’ve never come to a point in your spiritual life (gospel). 