We talked a couple weeks ago about how different contexts are important. Todays passage in exodus 14 – if you’ve brought your bibles and I hope you have, if not open to page_____ in your pew bibles – gains new depths when you consider the geographic historic and archeological contexts. 

As you may already know ex 14 is the story of the crossing of the red sea. This is after the the plagues in Egypt. You remember that story, I think everyone has seen charleton hestons moses. Hopefully you all read this story here recently too! Did you all make it through your weekly reading? I hope so. If not there is always next week. Its hard to establish new habbits. 

Any way, so where we are in our story today is right after the tenth plague. Every egyptian was grieving, and mourning the loss of their first born. In their grief they send the Israelites off with lavish gifts. Basically it was worth any cost to get these people whose God was angry with them out of their city. So they loaded the Israelites up with everything they could carry, and sent them off.

But as we will read something happens. Scripture says God hardens the hearts of Egypt. When we read our passage, please Make note of that in your bible. There are entire denominations that are founded around the idea that mans will is sovereign over God. Yet time after time after time we see in this story God hardening the heart of a man or men. If God has the power to harden pharaohs heart, does he not have the power to soften peoples hearts? To draw people to himself? Absolutely and Praise God for it, no one is ever too far Gone for God to reach, and woo them too himself. 

So when you hear people say God cannot change the heart of man, or God always respects mans free will – you can say “yeah that’s true, but that doesn’t keep him from interfering so that God can accomplish his will – look with me at exodus 14!”. 

Alright, lets read our scripture, exodus 14:1-10. 

First thing I want you to notice is they emphasize the location. Vs one they mention several land marks, and even what direction they were supposed to be facing. That caught my eye, and you know me, that triggered some research. I found some navigational charts for the red sea, and found where others before me had figured out where the Israelites would have crossed. Turns out there is a place called Dalia forgive me for butchering Arabic, but its called Nuweiba. If you look on maps from more than a hundred years or so ago, you find that it was called “Nuweiba al Muzayyinah” or roughly waters moses crossed. Or waters of moses crossing. There are a lot of things whose real location has been changed over the years, not only geographical markers, but dates – look at Christmas, Jesus was probably born in the spring as far as we can tell. But over the years the catholics coopted Christ’s birth and used it to obscure a pagan holiday. I don’t think Christ minds. Its more important that we celebrate Christ, than that we get the day right. But this has happened with historic locations a few times as well. So this alone wasn’t enough to convince me. I did some more digging, and I found out that there is an obelisk on the Egyptian side that has been defaced. It had some writing on it, but little is still there. Across the sea there is another pillar – that still has writing. It commemorates the crossing of moses, and was placed by Solomon to Honor God, and the miracle he did at the crossing of the sea, and the destruction of the armys of pharaoh. Little wonder the one on the opposite shore was defaced! Next I turned to navigation charts of the area – the gulf of aqaba – just a little bit north, and a little bit south the sea drops off quite steeply. Where the Israelites likely crossed is about 90-100ft deep at its deepest. To the north and south of this place, the sea drops down to a little under 2000 meters, or just short of 6000 feet deep. 

I don’t know about you guys, but whenever I pictured this, I had the bible story book picture of men walking between walls of water that would have came to their shoulders. It would have been an inconvenience but not anything too dangerous. But no, they would have been surrounded by walls of water up to a hundred feet deep, and not only that the crossing is around ten miles at that point by my best ability to estimate using google maps. Not only that but they have found bunches and bunches and bunches of busted up chariots. They found the bones of men and horses. All of which has been preserved, and encrusted in corral. By contrast, they really haven’t found many other places where anything remotely close to this could have happened. Precious few places are so shallow, none of them are littered with archeological evidence. None of them are called the place where Moses crossed, and none of them were recognized by the ancient Israelites as the place where it actually happened. So its pretty clear that this is THE spot where it happened. Isn’t that cool? Sciences proving events found in scripture. ……..