When God is for us, who can be against us?

It strikes me that the Israelites keep getting themselves in trouble. How many times do the Israelites end up being taken captive, or slaves in another land, or something along those lines? It seems like it happens over and over and over. Here – yet again – they are in captivity. 586bc king Nebuchadnezzar comes in and captures Jerusalem. 

As we discussed last week he was a wicked man early on in his life. Seizing people as slaves, desecrating the temple, and massacreing 600,000 of the nation of Israel for no other reason than they had obeyed his command and worshipped his statue. On top of that they have records that indicate he was a pedophile and preyed on young boys. 

This is the guy that captured the Lords people. But God didn’t leave him that way did he? If you want to read the whole story ahead of time, you’ll find the resolution to that story in Daniel 4. Long story short, king Neb defied God, and gold said ok fine, but you’re going to be like a beast of the field for a while. So God humbled him, and made him as best as we can tell – made him crazy for a time. He ran around in a loin cloth grazing like an animal for a period of time until Neb was willing to look to the Lord. As soon as he did, his mind became clear once more. The mark this left upon Babylon was pretty profound, because when Neb died and Babylon descended into chaos, and eventually the Persians conquered Babylon, the Persians were very very respectful of God. 

In fact in part of the verses we didn’t read tonight they tell the king to look into the royal archives, and see what has happened to those who have held Jerusalem. The Israelites would rise up, and with the help of God be set free. To punish Israel, it seems israels captors would also be punished. So the Persians were walking on thin ice not wanting to offend God. They wrongly believed at this point in time that God’s would capture a section of land, and as long as you were in that patch of dirt, you were subject to that deity. This is a form of pantheism. They figured as long as they had possession of the dirt held by God, they had better honor God…. At least where Gods dirt was. Little did they realize that God’s dirt is the entire planet, and God’s people come from every single tribe, and tongue and nation. They weren’t hidden from God because they resided on different dirt. God is everywhere, and knows everything. He KNEW how the Persians were. He KNEW what they worshiped, and he still worked in the hearts and minds of these people for the betterment of God’s people. The battle was the Lords, the Persians, and Babylonians, even King Neb just didn’t know that yet. King neb was the strongest earthly authority at this time. He was the USA, the supreme leader. He was the major earthly power. If the strongest man on earth can have his will bent like the flame of a candle responds to breath, then what earthly power or authority can stand before God? They stand because he wills it, they fall because he wills it. They can be bowed even with the slightest hint of his breath. The tinyest clipping of his power can overwhelm our country, or anything. What a might God we serve. When we talk about God being for us, that is the God that is for us. That is the one on our side. The one against whom none can stand. No human power or otherwise can stand but for the grace of God. 

Secondly If it keeps you from obedience to the Lord, its not a blessing. At the same time as all of this was going down, you remember the story of the young men from Israel, that refused to eat the food of Babylon? There was once a guy that I knew. He had been hot and cold on and off his whole life. Wanting to follow the Lord, trying to follow the Lord, and then distraction would come. Perhaps a shiny stick would come through town, and then he’d be off worshipping it instead. You know the type right? People that on some level seem like they want to follow the Lord, but in practice don’t seem to be able to get it together. They let every little thing keep them from church. Church and the Lord don’t seem to be priorities. With their mouth they say words that make it sound like they care about the Lord, but with their lifestyle they prove otherwise… So any way, this one point in this one guys life, he starts going through the motions, or maybe really trying to live for the Lord. For a year he’s in his church every time the doors are open. He’s helping with anything you can imagine. He’s volunteering, trying to teach, trying to do this and do that. He even brings his family along after a while. They tolerate it for a while. One day, all of a sudden my friend said the whole family just stopped coming to church. Stopped taking phone calls, stopped inviting the kids friends over… Just completely withdrew. Of course we know what that means don’t we folks. But regardless, a few weeks went by, maybe a month or two and this pastor friend of mine ran into this family again. The man told my friend that God had been blessing him too much, and that’s why he can’t go to church, The work, the fun, and so forth it was just too much for him to make it to church. My pastor friend responded that if the blessings were really from God it wouldn’t keep him out of church. If its not from God where is it coming from?

Ultimately though we already know the end of the story don’t we? Thought the fighting may be fierce, we have the end of the story right here in our hands. The end of the story is this: Good triumphs over evil. God has already won, our enemy just doesn’t know it yet. That reminds me of a Japanese man in the philipines. During ww2 the rest of his unit was captured or killed. His orders were to stay hidden and collect information, so he stayed hidden collecting information for pretty close to the rest of his life. In his 80s, just a couple decades ago, he was discoved and captured by philipino authorities. He thought he was still fighting. He didn’t know the war was over. He was eventually repatriated into japan. 

But its like that with our enemy today as well. God has won. The fight is over. Our enemy just hasn’t got the memo. The devil is still trying to wage war on us – even though he’s been defeated. Listen, if our God is big enough to hold the world in his hand, is there anything that’s too big for him? If our god is powerful enough to hold all the molecules together, is there anything he is too weak to manage? Pastor Bob likes to say You and God are the majority. Its true. With God there is nothing, no power, no politician, no circumstance that’s too hard for him to manage. If God can make Israels captors PAY to rebuild the temple, the city of Jerusalem and her walls, is there anything he can’t do? Our president says he’s going to build a wall and mexico is going to pay for it, and maybe that will happen or maybe not. But God actually made it happen. 

so to fill in some of the details, after the officials made the work stop, the Israelites started working again, so the officials wrote to the king, and asked him to make the work stop. The new King a descendant of darius, who was the third king after Nebuchadnezzar, said they should stop. Again the defied orders, saying they would continue until the king ruled on the situation. In chapter 5 they send their response. Its interesting to note that the governor had asked for the names of all the builders, he was hoping to be able to punish these people individually. Any way, they responded, and told the king they were doing as commanded by God – ruler of all heaven and earth, and that they were only doing as commanded by his predecessor, and that if it seemed good to the king, he should have his people look up his fathers  commands. The king of course does this, and finds that his father not only promised to let them repair the temple, but also promises to foot the bill for it. Not only that, it promises to restore all the recoverable gold and silver that had been stolen from the temple. The cups, and trinkets, and treasures that had been accumulated from solomons day forward – that could be found were returned to Jerusalem. Returned to the temple. 

It strikes me just how much the world around Israel was impacted, and purified by the machinations of God through his people. What an impact they made on the assyrians, the Babylonians and the Persians. Three nations full of idol worshipers, unaware of the one true God. We discussed earlier what happened with King Neb, how God humbled him for a full seven years, before Neb would humble himself and look to heaven. Its after that God calls Neb his servant. We kind of gloss over what it would be like for the leader of the nation to change religions so dramatically. 

Imagine tomorrow the president came out and announced he had become a muslim over the weekend. How would that re-shape the country? Laws would have to change. Culture would begin to change. Laws that regulated religion would by executive order be changed. How would it affect national stability? Look at other countries, how has the influx of islam shaped them? Our nation is generally slow to change because of our system of government. But if our chief executive puts pen to paper it becomes law. It can be fought. But until it is, and is defeated, or until he’s been replaced, when he puts pen to paper on that resolute desk, it is law. 

In the day of Nebuchadnezzar, this was more fully reflective of how things worked. There were no checks and balances like we have today. There were no congressmen, and senate, and supreme court. There was Nebuchadnezzar, and the nation flowed at the whims of his capricious will. He had power and authority to over ride the religion of the country, he forced everyone to worship him. He put more than a half million unarmed innocent people to death by the sword – hacked apart – for obeying him. In his wilder rebellious days he could have the citys young sons lined up, and choose which one he would take to his bed. If the parents didn’t like it? Death for them. Nebuchadnezzars grasp on Babylon was iron clad, evil, and unyielding. 

Then all of a sudden, after 7 years, Neb comes back with a change of heart. We don’t know the full extent of his change, but we know God begins calling Nebuchadnezzar his servant. He suddenly is conscientious of the people of Israel, the Jews. He begins to worship the one true God. How different do you think his nation would be in short order? Unfair laws tossed out, replaced by fair laws. We know that ultimately there were laws established to protect the jews, laws to feed, and house, and give them anything they asked for to a certain limit. In fact, for some things – like salt, a jew could walk into your home and demand all of the salt you have, and you would be compelled to obey under penalty of law. The army would literally come in, destroy your home, and kill the person that refused to help a jew, a follower of God. So deep was Nebs fear of God. May be a little over kill on Nebs part, but neb was still neb, and these laws were passed early on in nebs awareness of God. If God is doing this thousands of years ago, for people who sacrificed children as part of their pagan worship. Its easy to imagine just how God would reach – as he says in revelation panta ta ethne – every people tribe nation, and tongue. If he decides to reach a person he will move heaven and earth to make it happen. 

I don’t want you to miss is that no matter how messed up you think you are, you are never too far gone for God to reach. If God can reach a mass murdering, slave taking, idol worshipping pedophile, then God can reach you too. Last week we talked about God’s love a little bit, we said it was like an ocean, but in calling it an ocean we were cheapening it because there is a finite amount of water in the ocean, and God’s love is infinite. The same is true of God’s grace. We could compare it to the amount of sand on a sea shore, the stars in the sky, or even the waters of the world, and yet any of those things, all of those things are a the light of a match, compared to the blazing sun of the reality of his grace. Wew talked about what it would be like if Jesus had been your child last week. How he continued to love us regardless. Not only did he still love us, but he was willing to forgive us. He was willing to extend us grace inspite of avalanche of evil we have done and continue to do to God. 

No one is too far gone. No one has sinned so much that God would reject their earnest plea for forgiveness. Their heart felt turning to God. Their choice to follow God. And yet, we know that we have so polluted our hearts and minds that we can’t even choose to follow God apart from his having begun to work in us. At every turn we choose wrongly, we choose to do the things that held Christ to that old rugged cross. Yet what did God do for us? He begins working in our hearts and lives so that we are able to turn towards Christ. He renews our minds so we can think clearly, and choose him. He writes our names in the lambs book of life. He adopts us as sons and daughters, princes and princesses. Heirs to the kingdom. 

Romans 10:9-10. 


Ezra 4:1-6, 4:24, 6:2-end
