Fifteen: When Your Best Is Not Enough
Trusted with a Silence
John 11:1-16
These verses in John 11 provide the prelude for Jesus’ dramatic raising of Lazarus from
the dead. In this stunning miracle, Jesus reveals his power (over even death), and he
demonstrates deep compassion for the people he loves.
What is perhaps most striking in the story, however, is Jesus’ delay in going to Lazarus.
For most of us, his delay is unsettling. There is a specific need – and Jesus obviously
cares – and he can certainly do something about the need – but, after hearing that Lazarus
is sick, Jesus stays where he is two more days.
Bible scholars are quick to explain that Jesus has his reasons for delaying – that Jesus
knows exactly what he is doing by staying where he is for two more days – that he has a
bigger purpose in mind. And those explanations are strong and convincing. Still, that
two-day delay is unsettling.
Christian writer Oswald Chambers had some interesting observations about this passage.
He wrote this: “Has God trusted you with a silence – a silence that is big in meaning?
Think of those days of absolute silence in the home at Bethany! Is there anything like
that in your life today? God’s silence is the sign that he is bringing you into a marvelous
understanding of himself. If God has trusted you with a silence, praise him, for he is
inviting you to understand his purposes more completely” (My Utmost for His Highest).
As we walk with God, there are many times when God is very close. Thankfully, there
are many times when he is very close. But there are also times when God seems
painfully silent. In those times of silence, we might wonder what we have done wrong.
(And it is a possibility that we have done something wrong!)
Still, Oswald Chambers’ suggestion is another possibility. Could it be that God is
trusting us with a silence? God’s silence may not, in fact, be an indication that we have
done something wrong.
God’s silence may, instead, be an indication that God is about to do something new.
Sometimes-silent God,
I am uncomfortable when you are quiet.
I am relieved to know
that you might trust me with a silence,
but I have a hard time trusting you with silence!
I am forever in a hurry.
I am in a hurry to have an answer.
I am in a hurry for things to be different.
I am in a hurry to have my hurts healed.
So I want you to speak – now.
I want you to act – soon.
I am unsettled by the two-day delays
and the delays that are much longer than that.
And I am especially unsettled
by your silence as that time passes.
I know that you will speak
when the time is right.
Give me the grace to wait
calmly
until that right time.
Amen
Questions for reflection:
1. Consider these words from Chapter Fifteen again: “For perhaps the first time
in my life, I was dealing with something that I could not fix. Prayer and
obedience and hard work and good training and godly intentions and sacrifice
– none of it seemed to make a difference.” Later in the same paragraph, Nik
says this: “I am embarrassed to admit it now, but I even wondered if maybe
this problem was too big for God.” What problems in your life, right now,
seem “too big for God”? Are you willing to place those problems in his
hands?
2. You might be encouraged to know (using Oswald Chambers’ words) that God
will trust you with a silence – but do you trust him in his silence? What do
you do when God seems quiet? Do you tend to walk away, do you wait and
hope that the silence ends, or do you dig deeper into your relationship with
God?
3. The stories of missionaries are very different. Some stories are marked by
visible and remarkable expressions of God’s activity. Other stories are
characterized by very little in the way of visible results. Occasionally, we
read about missionaries who labored for years without seeing one person
respond to the gospel. At the end of this chapter, Nik honestly asks: “Had our
efforts been worth the time, the money, and the energy invested? Was this
worth the price that we had paid?” How do you determine if your efforts and
your sacrifices are worth the price?