I heard a sermon this week, and in it, the pastor was telling the story of a thing that happened the day he proposed to his wife. He had just left the jewelry store, and was carrying the most valuable small object he’d ever carried around. He was paranoid of losing it, or having it stolen. He was convinced that this day was the day he would finally be mugged and lose this ring that was so precious to him. He had literally spent a year saving for it, and months working with the jewler to make it perfect. Finally he had this valuable thing in his pocket that not only was symbolic of a large portion of his income, but it was also representative of both a significant amount of time spent searching for, and customizing the ring so it would be perfect, but also it represented his future. He was absolutely paranoid. So he had it all planned out, he had the suit, and the place all picked out. He had a friend showing up with a boombox to play just the right song, their song. He had it all planned. He was running through his preperations and realized the cd he needed that night was broken. No big deal, I’ll just swing by the music store in the mall, no worries! No worries that is until it came time to actually go to the mall. He had his suit on, and he was sure that this would mark him as someone who was about to propose and who would have something valuable to steal. So he put on a hat, and pulled it down low, and a trench coat. It was a warm summer day, but he didn’t care, he just wanted to feel less conspicuous, and more safe, so he wore this heavy trench coat right into the mall. He said he kept his head down, and stared at the floor, and walked with purpose. All things that did nothing but draw more attention to him. So he gets to the music store, and starts looking around for the cd, and cant find it, so he asks one of the girls for help. She guides him to the cd, and starts asking 20 questions, why that cd, oh I see you are in a suit, why a suit? Wait, are you going to propose? Oh my gosh, that’s awesome, do you have the ring? Can I see the ring? And then in a loud voice she shouts to the other girls working in the music store that day, hey girls, come see this beautiful ring that this guy just bought, hes going to be getting engaged tonight! He said he practicly threw the money at her and ran out. He just wanted to be out of there and back in the safety of his car. 

He had something special in his pocket. Something precious. Something that represented his future, and a big investment. He said it made him walk different, and feel different. He acted differently once he had that ring because he was about to be an entirely different person. He was about to become one with this woman he loved, and this ring was the next big step in that process. 

I feel like as Christians we have something life altering, and valuable and precious. But do we often live like that is true? We will be in galatians chapter 2 today, galatians ch 2 if you’ve brought your bible and I hope you have. While you are turning there, I want to talk about our people group of the week – the Tanti of India. 

The Joshau project says “The Tanti people are found across the northeastern portion of India. They are said to have originated as weavers, providers of cloth, back in history as far as ancient Bengal. Not too long ago, virtually every home would have had a loom and cloth present. Today, much of their trade has been taken over by factory production and imported goods. They are considered among the lower castes of India. The Tanti community comprised of nearly 5 million individuals speaks over 15 languages, residing in 30 states of India. Of which only .01% of them believe in Jesus Christ. Reaching them with the Gospel of Christ will require a multi-pronged approach. Pray for discovery Bible studies to spread rapidly as they bless Tanti families and communities. Pray for the few followers of Jesus among the Tanti people, that they will live a life worthy of the calling they have received, being patient, bearing with one another in love. The Tanti community has a great need for clean water to help with sanitation issues. Since so much of this group is found in rural India, they do not have ready access either to sanitation or medical facilities. Most of all pray for the Lord of the Harvest to send workers into this field. Who will pray for the tanti?

Has your relationship with God made a substantive difference in your life? 

A Pastor and friend of mine used to say who is a believer and who isn’t is as completely obvious as it is when someone has placed their face on a blazing hot stove burner. If you would press your face onto that glowing burner on your stove, you would have a mark on your face for the rest of your life. Everyone that meets you would see your face and know, wow, his face had a run in with a stove, because you’d have an obvious pattern burned into your face forever. You would be unalterably permanently marked. 

No less is true when our sinful selves have an encounter with the Holy God. Moses, just saw God’s shadow, and for the rest of his life he glowed to the point where the Israelites asked him to wear a veil. It kinda freaked them out. Honestly its moses wife I feel bad for, imagine sleeping next to someone that glows bright enough to he seen in the daylight. Or being moses, closing your eyes and still seeing the afterglow of God having met with him on the mountain when he was given the ten commandments. In fact if you read exodus 34, you can read all about it. He came down the mountain and the people were afraid to come near him because the skin of his face glowed so brightly. Moses was wildly different after his encounter with holy God. 

Lets read our passage, Galatians ch 2:15-end

Our guilt has been revealed by the law. That is the purpose of the law. To show us just how far short we fall from God’s standard. Ever told a lie, even a little white one to spare someones feelings? Lying – even under those circumstances is sinful. What about sex outside of marriage? That’s a sin. 1 corinthians 6:9-10 9 Or do you not know that the unrighteous1 will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: xneither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,2 10 nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.

That’s a tall standard – can any of us say we’ve ever not been unrighteous even for a minute? Compared to the standard of scripture. The best we can hope to offer, the most righteous man on earth apart from Christ – you know what scripture says about his efforts? Filthy rag. Specifically, used menstrual rags. Read it for yourself, Isaiah 64. Paul quotes that passage in Romans 3:10 when he says no one is righteous, no not one. 

We all fall so far short. Which tells us something about the God we serve. In all of human history across the billions of men that lived, even Adam born without sin. Apart from Jesus, has there ever been a man that was able to live up to Gods standard apart from God? Certainly not. Even the heroes of the faith had their failings. Adam born without sin. Made it about ten minutes before he and eve sinned in the garden. Which is I think typical of kids. You tell them no, whats the next thing they want to do? Whatever you told them not to. So Adam failed. What about Moses? Moses wrote five books of the bible, he has to have been a decent guy right? He was a murderer, and even after he started following and being obedient to God he still was disobedient to the point God wouldn’t allow moses to cross the river into Israel – into the promised land. But lets keep going. Surely there is someone better. Maybe Abraham – Abraham who followed God into the desert at God’s command. Surely Abraham was somewhat righteous right? Nope. When it came to protecting his wife, he had no faith in Gods provision, and he traded his wife several times for the promise of personal security to various leaders. Maybe that’s where Rodney Dangerfield got his joke “Take my wife… Please!” Ladies, I bet that would make you feel all warm and fuzzy towards your husband. Bad guy comes along, and explicitly or implicitly threatens your husbands wealth, and so his first response is, well.. why don’t you take my wife instead. People talk about keeping the fire in their relationship alive, after being traded, I don’t think the kind of fire sarah had when she came back, was the kind of fire people want in their relationship. So fast forwards a few years and he does it again. The list goes on. Even his kids failed to be properly righteous. Lets look at who God loved in scripture – God specifically calls out David, King david as a man after God’s own heart. But whats he do? Commits adultery with a woman who is married to one of his lieutenants. Rather than own up to it. He orchestrates several plots and ultimately he develops a conspiracy to murder his loyal and devoted lieutenant, so that the kings disloyalty and adultery can be hidden. 

Surprise surprise though, his sin was written in scripture, and for thousands of years people have read of David’s shame. Did david live up to God’s standard? Nope. Not even Paul who wrote half of the new testament was able to. He writes “the things I want to do, I don’t do, and the things I hate, those things I do. Prior to which he was a murderer and persecuted the Christian church with pride. Under the Law we were completely incapable of living up the standard God by his very nature instituted in the world. What we know of Good, and love, and hope, and peace we are able to know because of who God is, because of God’s very nature. God isn’t asking us to do anything that he himself isn’t willing to take the lead in. He demands nothing more of us than he has already done since before the beginning of time himself. He is Holy. We because we chose to sin, are so very much less than that. And Paul says in Romans 3 Essentially that that is the point. He writes vs 3”our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God”. God’s righteousness gives him the right to judge us. Just like he is perfect holiness, he is also perfect Justice. Any of you familiar with our justice system know its imperfect. Innocent people go to jail, guilty people go free. Punishments are frequently both too harsh and too mild considering the offense. Yet that is not so with God’s Justice. This is serious. God’s justice is perfect, and even handed. Everyone who has sinned against God deserves the same punishment. Death. I hear people talking about how they don’t deserve this or that bad thing that happens. Yes you do and more. We all deserve way worse than we get. We all richly deserve to burn in hell for an eternity. Yet what do we get?

For one thing, we are offered hope, and future. Because with Christ we are no longer slaves to works or the law. Hear me closely here. This isn’t liscense to sin with abandon. If you believe deep down in your heart that becoming a Christian means you can do commit any sin you want, or follow any other God you want it likely means you were never saved to begin with. 

Salvation is the root, works are the fruit. What we believe affects how we act. If we really believe in God, if we really believe in Jesus. It affects how we think, and how we think affects how we act. True – real – mature believers in Jesus Christ are like those that have pressed their face against the hot burner of the stove. 

If you’ve really committed to Jesus Christ, your actions begin to change. Your conscience is changed. Your desires change. Who you are on a fundamental level changes and In amazing ways. 

Who here hasn’t heard a testimony of some one lost and mired in sin and this world, and then God got ahold of their heart, and made them a new creation. In this room right now are stories of people addicted to drugs, but God saved them. Stories of people who have been involved with violent gangs. Stories of the full depths of human depravity, and how God has saved them. God has justified them. How God is even now sanctifying us. The most powerful testimonies in my mind are those of folks whom God has kept from even going down those roads in the first place. That’s a huge miracle. If that’s your testimony don’t discount it. God holding us close and keeping us out of trouble seems like a lot more work than rescuing us from trouble. A wise man once wrote the human heart is a factory of idols. I agree with that. Its so easy to wander into idolatry. Putting your own wants and needs over Gods desires for you. Ever said “I don’t feel like going to church today?” and then didn’t go? In doing so you’re putting what you want over what God wants. Same with sex outside of marriage. God has a plan for that, and when you circumvent it, you’re telling God what you want is more important than what God wants. 
God keeping you, God keeping me back from those things is an amazing demonstration of his power. 

Our passage today says being a Christian is a little bit like death. Look at vs 19 For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. 20 I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. 

In another passage Paul writes that we are hidden in Christ with God.

Becoming a true Christian is such a stark contrast to who you were that its like who you were died and no longer exists. Whats left, is hidden in Christ with God. I like how Paul wrote it in epesians 2, he says apart from Christ we are a corpse. But when we become Christians its like we are able to truly live for the very first time. 

To a certain degree this takes place over time. No Christian is perfect until the day they take that last breath. It is one of those things that is already true of us (dead to sin and self and satan, and live in Christ with God) and yet not fully expressed. It increases over time because of God’s grace and goodness. Because of his great love for us. 

If you’ve never come to a point in your spiritual life where you’ve been redeemed, where you’ve traded in your old stinking corpse for new life in Christ then today is the day!

Maybe you became a Christian a long time ago but wandered away from God, fighting him kicking and screaming. Embracing any shiny thing that walks past. Jesus says “I am the way and the truth and the life, NO ONE comes to the father except through me. Not budhha. Not Krishna, not reike, not the jehovas witness. Not confession to a priest, not even going to church is enough to save you. Only a relationship with jesus Christ. Only when you truly begin to follow him only, only when you exchange all the worthless things of this world, the idols, and the other ways this world loves and turn to Christ will you one day end up in heaven. We must with God’s help turn from our wicked ways. If you claim to love God, and instead live in rebellion to his word, then you’re lying to yourself. Paul says of such people “the truth is not in them. 

Today is the day to get right with God. 

Gospel. 
