Good morning, and thank you for joining us this week both here at the church and on facebook. we are going to be in Lukes gospel if you’ve brought your bible and I hope you have. If you’re looking for luke it goes – Mathew mark luke then john, if you get to john you’ve gone too far. Luke chapter 10.
While you are turning there Were going to be once more praying for those who are suffering because of corona virus for our people group of the week. I read on Wednesday that they are expecting as many as 240,000 deaths in the next two weeks due to this virus, so lets pray that no one dies without having one more chance to hear the gospel. Lets pray for those on the front lines of this struggle, those making decisions, and everyone affected in general. 

Greg will you open us in prayer? 

This morning It strikes me that a lot of people have been asking about reading their bibles, where they should go, what they should read, and as you know we are reading our way through the bible. It occurs to me that I’ve been negligent in posting those verses, I’m going to do better about that. Any way, there are a lot of people that are asking about reading God’s word. Maybe its new to them, or maybe its something they’ve gotten away from. I’ve been suggesting to everyone that asks that hasn’t been reading for a while that they start in John. But it occurred to me this week that we need to remind people to be careful in their reading. Its easy to just read the bible, and move on with your life. But you don’t want to just read a few verses and walk away and forget about what you’ve read. That’s better than not reading quite a bit. But you can still get your self in trouble. Kinda like Martha in our passage today. Speaking of  our passage lets read it. Luke 10 starting in vs38-42. 

Now some of you may be saying Mary and Martha walked with Jesus, they talked with Jesus. He was sitting around their coffee table talking to them. They had it a lot easier than we do when were just reading this book. If they had a question, Jesus was standing there, right in front of them. They could just take Jesus by the hand and ask him a question. Wouldn’t it be easier if Jesus was sitting around the fire with you, and you could pick his brain, and he would answer you verbally? 

Maybe so, but God has given us all of the answers that he wants to have, and they are recorded right here for you and I to read at our leisure. I believe that God is everywhere all the time, he;s with us in our proudest moments, and during our darkest shames. He’s there with us for our triumphs and failures and everything else in between, so then he is there with us while we read His word. The word he left for us. The word he wants us to understand, and read, and meditate on. If he wants us to know, really know and understand his word, he’s going to help us to read and understand it. He’s going to be there with us as we read it. And that should change the way we read scripture. Reading scripture and praying are a dialog with God. With the king of kings and lord of Lords. That should change how we approach it. That should change the priority we put on it. This isn’t just reading some old book. This is reading a dialog with God very God. When we pray and tell God what we want him to do, but refuse to read his word, refuse to hear his responses, then what are we really doing? Have you ever had a friend that would only talk to you when they needed or wanted something and blew you off the rest of the time? Praying and asking for things, and ignoring God’s word is like that person. 

Lets put this in a positive light for a second. There was a pastor, a reverend as it happens in Scotland. He died before he was 30, but in the years he ministered he left an indelible mark. As a young man in college he wrote this: “I arose early to seek God and found him whom my soul loves, who would not rise early to meet such company?”.  Does your heart long to see God? Have you ever gotten up early, excited to read your bible? Talking to God isn’t the chore of the overtired it’s the blessing of the child of God. A blessing that Mary understands. When Jesus was talking Mary was there listening. She wanted to soak up like a sponge everything that Jesus had to say. She was there actively listening. I like to think if Jesus were walking the earth today that I would be one of those who would walk with him, and talk with him, and would be like mary soaking up all of Jesus that I could. But lets be real – if you aren’t Mary with God’s word now, why do you think you’d be Mary if Jesus were walking among us? I think there are a lot more Martha’s than Marys. So many of the people that preach on this passage leave it at Martha bad, Mary Good. Be like Jesus. But this story is deeper and wider than that. We don’t know exactly what Martha was doing. We know she was making preparations to feed Jesus. Hospitality in this culture – and in many cultures still today is a way of showing honor to, or shaming someone. Having Jesus come to her house would have been an honor to Martha, and she surely wanted to honor Jesus back by putting on the best spread that she could manage. Its interesting that there are ten meals in the gospel of Luke, it almost seems like Luke was saying much ministry happens around the dinner table. I think we would be well served as world wide church to spend more time together over food. People relax a little, and enjoy each others company. People are more open I think. Campfires do the same thing. Everyone relaxes, and opens up a bit. Its one of the reasons I love that under normal circumstances that we share a meal every week. It gives us a chance to grow closer together, and to speak into each others lives in a way that just doesn’t happen too often in a western context. Here in the west we meet together for an hour or maybe 2 if you’re a high achiever, and then go home for the week. In the east, especially in Jesus time people met together daily. The Christians in your circle are the only living people who will ever truly understand your struggles. Struggles for holiness, and to be more Christ-like. Struggles with other Christians. The only people who will ever really get you, and what you’re going through is other Christians, so when things get hard, pull together. Don’t pull apart. Don’t think that by isolating yourself and drowning alone in your own drama that you’re somehow being noble. You’re not being noble. Think about it in animal kingdom terms. You ever watch animal documentaries? I like to watch those. I don’t always get to. But when I can I like to. Any way, this one show was looking at this pack of Gazelles. Like many animals in Africa they have become super alert, and aware of danger. Its not like our domestic chickens that are pretty much in the belly of the predator before they realize there is trouble. Those kinds of gazelle don’t last long, and indeed that’s what happened in this one particular documentary. It followed a family of gazelle, the momma met the daddy, and they had babies. The momma was raising the kids, and one of the kids was especially alert to danger, and was really good about staying near the other gazelle. The little brother however was not. He would set off by himself. He would get 2-300’ away from the pack, and the mother would go shoo him back towards the group. But a few minutes later he was off exploring on his own again.  Suddenly a hungry cheetah appeared out of nowhere and before little gazelle could get back to the pack, and before momma gazelle could catch the attention of the cheetah, the little boy gazelle was dead and being eaten by the cheetah. 

The same thing happens in a campfire. When the coals of the fire are kept close together they stay hot and are useful things. But if you take one coal out of the campfire, and leave it in the dirt nearby, its going to cool off and will no longer be as useful. 

Christians are similar – there is safety in keeping together. There is security and growth in staying together. So in this time of social isolation, you’ll need to lean into God. You’ll need to spend more time in his word. More time praying. More time in worship. To make up for the lack of fellowship with other believers. When you isolate yourself you’re like that coal outside the fire, what happens? You lose your heat. Without time spent at Jesus feet in communion with him, You’re like a flashlight without batteries, you lose your light. 

Mary seems to know this, but Martha didn’t. When things got busy for martha she got so busy, so flustered that she did something remarkable. If you ever find yourself doing this, you know you’re on shaky ground with God. Read vs 40 which says 40 But Martha was distracted by all the preparations that had to be made. She came to him and asked, “Lord, don’t you care that my sister has left me to do the work by myself? Tell her to help me!”

Tell her to help me. She said this to God. She ignored Jesus presence in favor of making preparations for Jesus, and when she started feeling anxious, she goes straight to God, which is a good start, and then starts telling him what to do “don’t you care? Tell her to help me”. Telling God what to do is kind of shakey ground at best. Tossing in an attempt at a guilt trip likewise wasn’t her best choice. Does she think she knows better than God what must be done? She clearly thinks she knows better than Jesus what Mary ought to be doing with her time. She clearly thinks Jesus is in part responsible for her sisters perceived shirking of her duties. Shes clearly uptight thinking she knows better  Jesus what mary ought to be doing. But does she? 

When we ignore God’s word, we are telling God “I got this, I don’t need your help, I don’t need your teaching, I don’t really need you”. I know you guys well enough to know those words would never come out of your mouth. But how often do you say those things with the way you live your life? The way your prioritize your time? Jesus needed to eat – sure. But jesus wasn’t there for the food, he was there to teach mary and martha. He was there for them. But martha wasn’t there for Jesus. Take stock of your life today. Are you Mary – lovingly enjoying sitting at the feet of Christ enjoying his presence and his word? Or are you more like martha? Fussing and fretting about circumstances, and as a result became to busy for Jesus. Who are you in this story? Are yous pending moretime fussing and fretting than you are in God’s word this past week? If you’ve spent more time reading about this covid 19 virus than reading God’s word, and worshiping, and in prayer, than maybe you’re being a martha. That train only has one destination, and its not a fun one. No one likes to be worried, exhausted and ultimately burned out. That’s the track martha was on. 

In a time when the world needs to hear, and see Christians living for the Lord in the midst of a pandemic, don’t take a step back from having faith in God and begin to depend on your self, and your own interpretations of the latest statistics. Lean into God. Gear up your chariots for battle – you know, take precautions, be smart. Wash your hands, don’t pick your nose. Gosh. That reminds me. I was at Walmart in Hudson this week. I needed to pick up a kayak paddle, and I saw all these people trying to use their personal protective equipment. Masks, gloves, hand sanitizer, and everyone was using it in a bad way. If you’re going to wear a mask, you have to keep it over your mouth and nose or it doesn’t do you any good. With gloves, if you touch your face with your glove, and there is virus on your glove, congratulations you’ve got the virus. Likewise, if you touch your gloved hand with your bare hand to take the glove off, you’ve contaminated your hand, and anything that hand touches now has the virus on it for several days. People don’t seem to know this, Iknow you guys are smarter than that, and more savy than that. I hesitate to tell this story though, because its so gross. But here goes. This guy was walking out of Walmart, probably 60 or so in age. He had his mask down over his chin, and was rubbing his face with his gloved hands. He then took his left glove off, threw it on the ground (where someone else is going to have to expose themselves to the virus to clean up your mess), used his bare left hand to remove the contaminated glove from his right hand, and then proceeded to pick his nose with his contaminated left hand, and eat it. 

I was absolutely grossed out. It all happened faster than I could warn him. If he was exposed to the virus, he’s going to catch it now. Cross contamination happens so quickly, and its easy to do if you’re not paying attention. 

Swipe your card? Now your card may have virus on it, and if it does, it can survive on some plastics for days. Stick the card in your wallet? Now your wallet and card are contaminated. Stick your contaminated wallet and card in your pocket? Your clothes can be contaminated for several days as well, so be careful. When you’ve been out, wash those clothes. Always wash your hands, and don’t touch your face. If in doubt, wash it. Avoid groups, and keep a 6 foot bubble around you as much as you can. Those are the ways you prepare your chariot for this battle. This is how you protect the ones you love by being smart, being safe, and depending on God. 

Mary I mentioned she was doing the right thing, but I didn’t mention that she was doing the right thing despite what her culture said. Back then the culturally appropriate thing was for the men to be sitting together talking, and the women to be in the kitchen working. So when Martha complains to Jesus, its because what Mary is doing is scandalous in that culture. Women had their place, the culture of the day thought, and Mary was absolutely in the opposite of that place to the point where it was agitating her sister. Jesus affirms that Mary was doing the right thing, even though it went against what the days culture taught. So many in our culture have such wildly weird ideas about what is and isn’t right. There is a guy from florida that travels around during hurricane season, brings a big boombox with him, and he strips down to his boxers, and head bangs to heavy metal music while flying an American flag as a display of defiance against the raging storm. Our culture right now approves of this kind of behavior, to the point where he has made a business out of this. People pay him, pay for his gas, pay for his hotel, his missed work, and money for other things besides so that he can travel to north Carolina, or Louisiana or wherever to make himself as vulnerable as he can, and stand there with the flag in defiance. Culturally people think he’s right to do so. However, is he really right to do so? Not if he has kids. Not if he has family that love him, he’s being needlessly reckless with something precious. 

Likewise there is a movement in our local culture that we should defy medical advice and go out any way. I saw a post by some young people on facebook to the effect of lets get to gether and party, if we get drunk enough the alcohol will kill the virus any way. So who cares if we aren’t supposed to meet. Lets party, because yolo. And you know how I feel about YOLO. Needlessly reckless. We need to be against our culture in those tendencies. Stay home, stay safe. Live your faith as publicly as you can be that online, or when the neighbors need a roll of toilet paper. Take every opportunity to sit at the feet of Jesus, spend time in his word, spend time in prayer, spend time fellowshipping with other believers – even if you can only do that online, or on facebook, or on the phone. Don’t forsake the fellowship. Don’t be that coal outside of the fire by itself. Just be smart about it. Just be six feet or more away. 

Historically it has been the position of the church to lean into tragedy, and be there for people in all the ways they could. Pastors became basically C.N.A.’s during the black death. Churches became hospital wards. The church leans into tragedy. I don’t think this is going to come to that in our area. But be ready to be Christ to your neighbor. Your lost neighbors have questions right now, that God can answer. Be pointing them back towards Christ. 

For those of you that Don’t know Christ, or if you aren’t sure whats going to happen after you die. Or if you’re one of those that know you’re going to hell and make jokes about it being a party. For any of you folks, today is the day to have a relationship with Christ. Hell is no party. Its isolation, and pain, and darkness for eternity. If God heaven holds everything Good and holy in existence, then hell is every evil thing you can imagine concentrated into one spot. Its isolation, and depression, and agony. Hell is no party. Hell has no alcohol or drugs. And there are only two possible places people can God. Either heaven or Hell. If hell is everything bad, heaven is everything Good. Heaven is happiness, and pure real lasting joy and peace. Heaven is certainly where my loved ones are waiting for me. Heaven is perfect fulfillment and perfect love in the presence of our savior. The one who died for us. 

This is how you get to know him. 

Gospel. 

