Heb 12:3-17
Dog Story - Grace killed Paris' pet.
Considering what Christ went through, 
As it talks about in vs 3 - Consider The hositility Christ endured from Sinners.
You guys know this as well as I do – help me name a few.
Betrayed by the kiss of a friend.
Falsely accused
Mocked – throughout his ministry, especially at the end.
Scourged with a cat of 9 tails nearly to the point of death.
Forced to carry the implements of his death several miles up hill
Tore his blood soaked clothing off his back
Nailed to a cross (splintered back beam).
They gabled for his clothing
Left him hang upon the cross until he suffocated.
Who else do you know that would do that for you?
I was talking to a friend of mine a while back – Tim Smith. He went to jasmine with us for a while, and to another church or two with me prior to that. I’ve known the guy for a long time. Any way, he asked me one day if I would take a bullet for him. At the time he was a youth pastor, and I was a student – and I said I would. He told me I was an idiot. Because he’s a Christian and would be going to see Jesus. Said I would be robbing him of a blessing. 
For Jesus too (vs:2) it was a blessing! – it says for the joy set before him he endured the cross!
Philipians says Christ was obedient unto death – but the author of Hebrews raises a great point in vs 4 – How hard have you resisted sin in your life? Have you resisted it till you bleed? Sin is so easy, abstaining from it much more difficult. Last Sunday Kurt and I went to the livestock auction for about 10 minutes *chuckle* it was actually a little longer than that, but not by much we just caught the tail end of it. On my way there, and again on my way back I caught my self speeding. Does it glorify God when a pastor is speeding? Certainly not. Its not something I intentionally do, but there again violating the law of the land is a sin – that is as long as it doesn’t ask you to do something that violates scripture. I’ll check again, but I’m pretty sure there are no verses that say directly its ok to speed in your truck. Not speeding is something I try to be intentional about – I don’t want to sin. Yet its not something I’ve resisted to the point of shedding blood – like it says in vs 4. Folks the fight against sin in your life is serious. It starts with a relationship with Christ. In fact that’s the most important part. But not every sinful desire is going to be ripped from your life in the instant you become a Believer. Sometimes God asks us to resist temptation, to fight against sin, to constantly be working towards reaching a place of holiness. If you leave here only thinking you need to fight harder against sin, and be a more moral person I’ve failed – because the key is in the relationship with Christ. If you want victory over sin, pursue Christ! Freedom from addiction is found by pursuing Christ. The closer you grow to the Lord, the more your mind is focused on the Lord the less time you’ll have to be focused on these other things, and they will just fade out. 
Not only did God not spare His perfect abd sinless son from trouble trials and pain, but we as sinners should not expect to be treated better. 
God allows us to go through these things for a reason.
(read vs 5-6) that word discipline in the greek has a somewhat different meaning than the english word discipline. RC Sproul says the word paideo does carry the idea of discipline - but discipline in english carries with it the idea that its some sort of punishment - you've been naughty, let me spank you. But really its closer to boot camp - it more like training to be a seal, or a green beret. Bob Leko used to tell the kids that the most exclusive, most difficult group to join in the navy was the advanced forest recon units. In any case - the point is God allows us to go through troubles of various kinds to refine us, and to train us because He loves us. 
A lot of people think they need to get their life straight before they turn to Christ -au contraire!
God knew and chose you before the foundation of the World. eph 1:4
God formed us or knit us together in our mothers womb - Pslam 139:13 and Jeremiah 1:5
For we know that all things work together for the Good of those that Love God and are called according to his purpose for tose he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son (romans 8:28-29). 
So while we do not deserve anything but Hell, God gives us trials of various kinds to teach and train us to be better, to better relfect his Son to a lost and dying world. 
We deserve Hell, but we were given an inheritence. 
we deserve a punishment, but instead we are equipped. 
We deserve fire for eternity, but instead we are made sons and daughters.
but what are we doing with this advantage - this priveledge? 
Are we following our savior obediently? or are we drinking from the cesspool of the sin we were saved from?
  Are we even being obedient unto discomfort? 
God allows us to go through these uncomfortable times to refine and improve us - to make us more fit for duty. 
Bear with me for a second - but think of it this way, people are like tools. Most of us know Bob Leko - he was and maybe still is a sledgehammer. He made a big impact here in pasco - lots of people need sledgehammers. Those of us that were a part of his ministry, his bible study, the youth group - were all impacted by bob and drawn closer to the Lord through his service. But not everyone needs a hammer. Some people need a hammer and a chisel. some people are screws and need a screw driver instead. Even then some need a straighblade, and others need a star bit, or perhaps a philips screw driver. Point is as God in his sovereignty allows us to go through different things he is making us into better tools that he can weild here on earth. Even as we go through these "evil" situations. FLoods, hurricanes, false accusations, physical ailments, lifelong  struggles with sin, God is slowly chipping away at you making you more useful for the future. Maybe on the other side of your addiction God will use you to reach people who have had the same struggles. Maybe on the other side of your health problems God will use you to reach people who have had similar problems. Maybe as you sit there watching your children hurt in these same ways God will use you to reach others whose children struggle in the same way. God is preparing each and every on of you for minitsry. Maybe you won't all be pastors, but God has at least one someone he is preparing you to be able to reach. Don't miss out on the opportunity for blessing by keeping quiet when God gives you an opportunity to reach someone with struggles you can relate to. Everyone of us has struggled with something. everyone of us - if were truthful - still struggles with something, and if you think you don't struggle consider with me that perhaps your problem Is pride!
I was talking to Curt this past weekend about basic Training, my cousin is going into the marines and he was offering her advice. Afterwards we talked about how things used to be and live fire training exercises. Life in many ways is like that live fire training exercise. The enemy is firing arrows at us - we are actively in a war! Will you participate in the trainng our allow our enemy to shoot you?
This concept would have struck home with the audience of this book. Everyone would have been familiar with how rome opperated. While there is priveledge to being the air of a roman noble, there are also other effects. The primary air of a roman noble line - according to several sources - was essentially treated like a slave until it was his turn to take the mantle from his father. He was worked to the bone at every level of his fathers estate so that when the time came for him to take over he understood enough to manage it well. 
The long and short of it is this - God loves you too much to leave you were you're at. He loves you too much to allow you to miss out on blessings by sitting idly by on the pew, without ever getting into the game. 
read vs 11 - The process of purification is trials, and the result of the trials is holiness, righteousness, ministry and peace. Plus there will be rewards in heaven. 
Not only does God allow ALL of his children to experience difficulties of various kinds for various reasons, not only is this training a sign of his love, but take heart! DO not be afraid! for our God has overcome the World!
Vs 12 is an alusion to a passage in (Isaiah 35:3-4) that is talking about not being fearful.
So often that is how we approach trouble - with fear. Fear is present when faith is absent. 
I don't mean the kind of faith that leads to salvation. I mean the kind of faith you put in a chair when you sit. The kind of faith you have that stairs aren't going to collapse. My dads back staircase is quite prone to betraying me. Twice on the back and once on the front I was heading up the stairs and had a 22 year old stair collapse underneat me. Praise the Lord its only been the lower stairs. But God is NOT like my stairs! God is there for us in the way we need whether we can see it or not, whether we acknowledge he is doing so or not. 
Faith drives out fear. If you believe God can save you from an eternity in Hell, fear of anything else can have no power. Our God can walk on water, cure the sick, raise the dead, Defeated sin, death, hell and satan. He destroyed the plans of the evil one and has good plans for you.He works all things together for your good. of those he foreknew, those he predestined. 
That’s us folks. If we can trust him with the weighty matter of eternity then we can trust him in the day to day minutia. 
Are you putting your faith in yourself or in Christ?
 I know I am inclined to try and wrestle control of my life back when God drives past my turn. But that didn't work for Jonah, and it doesn't work for me either. Praise God he hasn't sent a fish to swallow me when I've gone that route in the past!
God loves you and has a plan for your life.
As we close here in a moment, I want you to think about your life. Are you following God when it hurts? Have we bled for him yet? Are you going or has he had you go through training recently? if not, maybe you need to come to know Jesus as your savior! if so come talk to me. If you're looking for a church to join? come talk to me. Have you ever been baptized? if not, and you'd like to - come talk to me. Love you guys!
If God didn't spare his son from trouble, what right have we to expect him to do better for us?
