Were jumping a head a little bit again. I’m enthusiastic about technology as most of you know, and one of the things I picked up a few years back is called an amazon echo dot. I have a couple scattered throughout my house which I had purchased instead of adding light switches which my house lacks throughout. Any way, one of the things this echo dot will do is give you the verse of the day. I ask the hockey puck shaped device for my briefing, and it gives me among other things a verse of the day. My verse of the day on Monday was heb 4:11. As frequently happens it was a verse that was applicable to my life right now, and that lead to reading the verse in context, and now here we are having a sermon on it. I love how God uses various hobbies or venues to bring to light His word in a timely moment. So if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have, open with me to Hebrews ch 4. 
While you’re turning there I’ll explain what the author of Hebrews is about to reference. 

He mentions Joshuas rest almost right out of the gate. What do you guys remember about Joshua?  He led the disobedient people of Israel after Moses, led them out of the wilderness and into the promised land, and God promised they would eventually see rest. But along the way they were disobedient weren’t they? They were lied to by one people, and incorporated them into their community, rather than acting in obedience to God. Their sin in this way, and in caused a cascade of problems and as a result It took well beyond the end of Josuhas life to find that rest though didn’t it? They didn’t fully finish conquering the philistines until the ministry of zecheraih hundreds of years later. Way way after david, who was way after Joshua. Even then the people continued to experience hardships, and difficulties, and was conquered several more times and all because of their sinful rebellion. God chastises those he loves. He withheld his rest for the land because of that. 

But as is so often the case when dealing with prophecy God was speaking not only to the circumstances of the day, but he was also pointing to the future wasn’t he? Where will we ultimately find the ultimate rest? Scripture has a number of descriptions of heaven John describes it as “the fathers house”, a mansion with many rooms. Hebrews describes it as a better country. Looking around we live in a great country – perhaps the greatest country on earth, and yet the bible promises heaven will be greater still. Hebrews goes on to describe it as a city designed and built by God. A friend is having a house built, and keeps having problems with contractors trying to take short cuts, but when God is the designer and builder, that won’t be a problem will it? It took him 6 days to design an earth we’ve spent thousands of years trying to fully understand. Yet Gods been building and planning heaven for longer. 

Phillippians promises the true Christian that they will go there when they die. Acts tells us heaven is where Jesus is right now, and psalms says heaven is God’s dwelling place. Have you ever been to a palace? I spent some time in Europe and went to a few. They were ancient buildings, but still amazing and impressive. Giant ceilings, and long rooms. One castle had a table to seat 200. If we took the table and cut it up into manageable chunks, it wouldn’t fit in our church. Every corner you turned was a new opportunity to display opulence. Jewels, arms and armaments, extravagant works of art – sculptures, and paintings by people you’ve heard of, and had made treasures from across the centuries. A castle reflects the prestige and power and opulence of its master, and I think heaven will be no different. 

Even the streets are paved with Gold. 

Ok enough of that though, lets read our passage today. Heb 3:12-end of 4. It starts off with a reminder that I think is important, and one that we tend to neglect at this point in the history of the church and that is accountability. We have this post modern approach to conflict so often, we try to avoid it out of fear and in seeking to give the benefit of the doubt, or a dozen other things, and in so doing we miss out on the blessing of having won over our brother or sister. I knew a guy whose approach to life resembled a sledge hammer more than a surgeons knife. Some people need the sledge hammer and some people need the gentle steady hand of a surgeon. Everyone has a different approach, and has more or less gentility or force. Each approach is needed by some, ignored by others and will sometimes be misunderstood. An example of a positive outcome happened this week.  I was talking to a friend, and fellow pastor, and he was talking about the idea of “woke theology”. Woke is used in a variety of contexts and none of them are all that great. My first exposure to the idea of being woke was in reference to the LGBTQ movement. They consider a person woke when they understand, accept and advocate for LGBTQ causes and so forth. So when I heard my friend say “woke” my stomach sank and I thought he was talking about trying to twist scripture to support things that scripture just can’t support. I didn’t respond to his message right away, and prayed about it, and then responded asking him to define woke for me, because my only interaction with the term didn’t originate with god fearing bible following folks and it made me uncomfortable. 

So he responded with some questions, and indicated that what he intended with the word wasn’t what I had interpreted, but it seems to be bad in another way, so I’ll be doing some research including reading the book he was talking about so I can talk with him from a knowledgeable place. He’s a good man, and if he’s been sidetracked from the gospel with social issues, than it is an act of obedience and love of Christ and his word, and indeed loving for me to approach my friend with an error if an error has indeed been made. In drawing him back to a scriptural position, it makes the church as a whole a better place, a holier place, a place more reflective of God and his word. 

Too often we sit by and watch good people end up in heresy or sin and frequently both. Because we are afraid to have an awkward conversation, or don’t want to do the work to have a solid grasp of the argument against their position or sin right from the start. 

Any way, its important, and because heresy and sin both lead to a hardening of the heart, and a hardening of the heart leads to more heresy, and more sin. 

Who of us wouldn’t warn someone who was blindfolded on the edge of a cliff? The biggest cliff people face is eternal hell. Who of us wouldn’t do as spurgeon said “If sinners be damned, at least let them leap to Hell over our dead bodies. And if they perish, let them perish with our arms wrapped about their knees, imploring them to stay. If Hell must be filled, let it be filled in the teeth of our exertions, and let not one go unwarned and unprayed for.”

Yet in not having these tricky conversations, we are being unloving to those around us. This is a mandate from God. 

The second thing I wanted to talk about is rest. Its so easy to let your days fill up with busyness. It has been a busy time for all of us these past few weeks. Weddings are a busy time, and busyness is a good thing, but being busy at the expense of your time with the Lord is not a good thing. 

We had some sheep born about three weeks ago now. Triplets. The oldest is huge, he’s bigger than the sheep born two weeks ahead of him. He’s going to be a massive ram one day. The second of the three is middle sized. She’s a healthy eater and is growing like crazy. She fights her brother off to get milk sometimes. She’s feisty and strong. But the third of the three is about 1/7th the size of her older brother. She was getting some milk, but not a lot. This kept her alive but she wasn’t growing as fast as the others. 

One morning maybe a week and a half ago, lilly noticed something was wrong. It was a cold morning, and this third little ewe was all hunched up and shivering. Sheep keep warm by eating.  Their rumen processes food, and as they do, one by product is warmth, and so they can keep warm through horrible weather as long as they have food in their belly. So this little one was cold, shivering, and hunched, all signs that death is near. All signs that its not getting enough food. Piggy older brother was pushing her away and keeping her from eating. So lilly told ellisha, and ellisha and mom ran to the store right then to get some milk replacer. A couple bottles a day, and she’s back to being healthy and full. She’s running and playing, and even eating solid foods now. 

But when she wasn’t being fed, she was lethargic, cold, and had a hard time getting around. 

How like the Christian is that? We get so busy that we neglect to feed ourselves. Our walk becomes a stumble, and then a crawl. What good are we at that point? 

Each and everyone of us has lost people in our lives that need to be fed. For many you are the only bible they will ever read. You are sometimes their only source of food. But if you are not resting in the Lord, if you are not finding your Joy in the Lord, if you are not finding peace in the Lord, how are you going to help the lost around us to do the same? If you go off your feed, you can’t supply milk to those God brings around you to drink. When you’re not resting in the Lord, and reading his word, when you’re not worshipping God, and fellowshipping with other believers you’re like a coal that’s been pulled out of the fire place. What happens? That coal becomes Cold doesn’t it? The Christian not feasting on and resting in Gods word, and worship and fellowship is functionally starving. He’s too busy, and like the nation of Israel under Joshua when we have starved ourselves like that little lamb we become weak. When we are weak, we are more easily deceived. We are also more prone to sin. 

It is interesting to me that in islam one of the names for their god is the deceiver, in fact in the quran in S. 3:54 it says their little g god is the best deceiver. Who does the bible describe as the deceiver? Our enemy. That’s right. What does he want to do to the Christian? He wants to make us impotent for our King. So he comes along side us and whipsers things in our ears doesn’t he. He says “you’re nothing”, you can’t do it, you’ll just fail. He whispers you are useless, and that God can’t use you. That God doesn’t want you. Maybe he whispers in daves ear “you’re just a cripple, you’ll always be a cripple, what can you do for God”. 

I tease dave about ladders sometimes, but Dave can do anything God wants him to do, as long as it doesn’t involve ladders . If God calls you to it, he will equip you to get through it. But you need to be recharging your batteries through spending time with God. Never neglect your relationship with God, it leaves you weak. Neglecting your relationship with God leads you into sin. Leads you into trouble. So REST in the Lord, find your peace and joy in the Lord. Find your HOPE in the Lord. This rest he gives us here on earth is but a flicker of what is to come in Paradise. 

Finally I want to draw your attention to verse 15. Someone read that for me out of the ESV. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. 

Its easy to think of God as this distant far off being that doesn’t know what it is that we go through. The shout of kids of this generation is you just don’t understand, its not like what it used to be. Which is nonsense. Scripture says there is nothing new under the sun. Sometimes it just comes in fresh packaging. The preassure to conform, or to lie, or cheat, or steal, or kill your baby, or pornography, or any vice that is out there. Jesus experienced the whole of the human condition. He knows what you are going through, he’s gone through it. He knows the depths of despair and loss, most people think Jesus lost his father before he was crucified on the cross. He knew the pain of losing lazarus, and the joy of seeing him risen from the dead. For the bible to say that he experienced temptation- every temptation we are faced with – then Jesus had to have had thoughts of suicide. I suspect it would have been that night in the garden when he was praying, God if there is another way, please take this cup from me. Maybe the deceiver was whispering in his ear. We don’t know! Scripture doesn’t say, but what it does say is that anything we can be tempted by Jesus had to face. Jesus knows what you’re going through. He has a plan for you in the midst of it, he has a purpose for this in your life, and it’s a good one. 

If you were told today, that because of this thing you’re going through, three years from now, when you tell that story, its going to keep someone from committing suicide, wouldn’t that put a different spin on things? If you knew your pain today had a purpose tomorrow. That your struggle with depression, or alcohol, or drugs today, was part of God’s plan to keep someone out of Hell tomorrow, wouldn’t that give you a fresh perspective? God knows what you are going through. He knows the past, he knows the present, and he knows the future. So whatever you are going through, he’s going to use in an important way in the future. Dottie, how many times has that year of near death been used by God in your life to tell people about what God has done for you, to basically share the gospel? Scores of times. Maybe thousands of times through your book. We aren’t always told. But we know God and we can trust him. We can rest in him. We just need to stay close to him. 

All that starts with a relationship. 

Gospel

Thanks for all the help with Granny’s wedding. You guys are awesome. Now get some rest in the Lord  



