I have been thinking about going back to seminary – online – to finish my degree. For those of you with higher education, you know what determination and focus it takes to complete something like that. You have to know your goal, and be willing to make choices and sacrifices along the way in order to achieve your objective. In simplistic terms, sometimes you have to study for a test instead of hanging out with your friends. Or you have to write a paper instead of doing something else you’d enjoy. You have to be careful of distractions, and keep your eyes on the proverbial prize. An education is a marathon not a sprint. I’ve told young people in the past a bachelors degree doesn’t teach you everything there is to know on the subject your degree is in, it teaches you a few voices to listen to, a few voices to avoid, and more importantly it shows to the world, to future employers and what not that you can take on a difficult task, and see it through to completion. Its valuable. It takes sacrifice. It takes strength, and perseverance. It takes a focus that we should extend to other areas of our lives as well. Like in sports, you have to visualize your success. Imagine hitting the ball out of the park, and you are more likely to do so. We have to set our eyes on the prize. So to speak. 

The Christian life is like that. The bad news is, we are not enough to do this on our own, the good news is we have Jesus holding us up at ever step of the way. 

Lets read our passage col 3:1-17

I want to start with the “do nots” of the middle half of the passage first. Its quite a list isn’t it? 14 things we are told not to do and a few things we are told specifically to do. No sexual immorality, no impurity, no passion, evil desires, covetousness or idolatry vs 5. Vs 8 put away all anger, wrath, malice, slander, obscene talk. Do not lie vs 9. Don’t be racist vs 11. 

Sexual immorality, I think this is something we are infatuated with as a culture. There have been commercials for a few shows lately, that I think are just trying to bank on half naked young ladies to sell commercials. Things like Love Island, which seems like its beautiful people sitting around gossiping about, and having sex in an exotic country. Heh. Want to learn a Greek word? The word for sexual immorality that’s used here, is actually one you are already familiar with to a point. A corruption of the Greek word is certainly one that is present in all of our vocabularies. Even if it isn’t a word you use daily. Its one you know and have used. The Greek word here is Por-nay-ah. Pornography is a combination of two Greek words – pornayah and grapho, grapho for writings. You could argue pornography then is sexual immorality written down. Books. Pictures. Videos. All of it sexual immorality visually represented. Or graphed. We will circle back to impurity in a moment, but lets look at passion. Most people think its good to be passionate about things. Who isn’t passionate about their kids. Or their grandkids. We hear stories almost every week of how this ones kid or that one has moved up in the rankings a bit. Has excelled at this or that. Has gotten a better bigger more lucrative job to better take care of his family. We are passionate about these things. The passion being mentioned here isn’t just “wow I love my kids”. I think anything we are too passionate about is at least somewhat in view here. We all care about our country for instance. But if we are more concerned about the next president than about telling people about Jesus we might be too passionate. Check your self on that. Leading up to the election, did you share the gospel with people more than you shared Trump and Biden? If we are too passionate about these things, and milk toast when it comes to Jesus than we are being inappropriately passionate. The Greek word has within its range “lust”. I hate to say this, but I fear its true, that the American church had lusted for power, and saw Trump as a convenient way to gain it. We felt subjugated, and repressed. We saw release in electing Trump. He was being spoken about in terms that should be reserved for Christ. Christian nationalism lusts for power, and control, and proper representation. Like a lover lusts for their partner. Should we vote well? Should we care? Yes. Its like food – we need to eat. But growing fat is dangerous. We need to vote. But lusting for anything apart from your spouse is sinful. That level of passion for anything other than Jesus Christ is sinful. Its Idolatry. Its rooted in our flesh, and has no business being a part of the life of a Christian. 

In fact, one of the next words is evil desires. Any desire we have that runs contrary to the will of God for our life, and for the world is an evil desire. Most people hear evil desire, and think, ok so I cant rob a bank. Right? Sure. That’s included. But this is a deep and nuanced word. Lets use it as a lens to look at some of the things we’ve talked about. Is sex on its own sinful? No. But what if its sex with someone that isn’t your wife? What if its sex with a dog, or a baby? Sinful for sure. What about politics? Is it sinful to vote? Certainly not. We all should vote. Where it becomes sinful is when politics and the political things consume our focus. I don’t mean 50/50 is ok. 50 pct for jesus, and 50pct for politics. If you’re out there telling 100 people about our lord and savior Donald trump, and only tell 100 people about Jesus its sinful. Jesus should consume our focus. Politics should be a thing that happens in our spare time, in the margins of our life. Not competing for focus with Jesus. 

In truth for the average person in this audience, most of us. My self included at times. Have elevated politics to a point where it has been or is an evil desire. Where it is an idol as a result. Where it was consuming our focus to an extent that is sinful. Truthfully in an election year, most of us talk about politics a few dozen times each week. Statistically speaking, the average Christian in America never tells someone about Jesus (60%). Only 15% share the gospel 6 times per year. Much less a few dozen times a week. The desire to improve our country isn’t bad. But when it consumes your focus its sinful. I know personally people who spend more time stumping for their favorite politician than they do in all of the spiritual disciplines combined. They maybe spend two hours in church a week, worshipping God. A few minutes a day in their bible, and a few more praying, to 20 hours plus talking politics. 

Evil desires indeed. Someone read vs 6 nice and loud for me. 

On account of these the wrath of God is coming. We earn the wrath of God when we engage in sexual immorality, we earn the wrath of God when we put anything else ahead of Jesus. We earn the wrath of God when we lust for things. These things we must put to death. A puritan once wrote “be mortifying sin or sin will be mortifying you”. I saw it updated and put on a t-shirt a while back “Be killing sin, or sin will be killing you”. 

I think from this passage vs 7 that we can make the argument that if someone is engaging in these sins knowingly, and wilfully, that perhaps they don’t yet know Jesus. Don’t get me wrong, I think there are at least two positions here. One is that of the drug addict trying to quit. They think about quitting, they start taking steps to quit. They fight it. They avoid people and situations that can trigger their desire for it. They create new healthy habbits, and then one day they make a mistake, and it grieves them. Right? They know its wrong or they wouldn’t try to quit. They know Jesus doesn’t approve and he fuels their desire to quit. They take actions. But sometimes they still fall. I’m not talking about you when I said what I said. The person I’m talking about is the one that goes to church, learns that a thing is wrong, goes home and does it any way because their concern, their passion, their lust, is for whatever their pet sin is. Be actively taking steps to put to death the sin that so easily entangles us. Be killing sin. Or be earning God’s wrath. 

He has a second list, these things we are to “put away”. Anger, malice, slander, and obscene talk. I want to jump through these quick. So were just going to look at slander and obscene talk. Some translations render that filthy language, some shameful or dishonest, one translation renders it as “foolish”. In truth the context is what informs most of those translations. Abusive is the exact word for word translation. Its related to the word for blasphemy. Blasphemy is a twisting of the truth about God. Taking something true and making it disrespectful and wrong. Saying something evil about God. You could say allowing our flesh and our feelings to determine what we think and believe about God instead of allowing God through his word to determine what we think, which then shapes our feelings about God. With slander instead of being pointed towards God like blasphemy, slander is pointed towards other people. Saying wrong, evil, disrespectful, twisted, and untrue things, or filtering our words about others through our feelings instead of God’s word is slander. Is it foolish and does it mark one as a fool to talk this way about others? Yes. 

But foolish talk just seems to shallow of a definition. Because it includes fowl language too in my understanding of the text. I have a couple of friends that are not personally bothered by dropping the F bomb. F this or that is not uncommon. I frequently hear from at least one of those that “opps I’m sorry I know you don’t like that word”. People. I don’t have virgin ears. Its not me that’s offended. Its God. Work on your language because God wants you to. Not because you’re ashamed of saying it in front of a pastor. Do you think God cant hear you the rest of the week when you curse like a sailor at work, or in your personal life? He’s the one to fear. Not me. At worst I’m going to point you to the biblical passages on using foolish language, abusive language, or what have you. But ultimately don’t change because I told you to, or because you’re concerned I’ll think less of you. Change because you know those words are part of the reason Jesus had to be nailed to that cross. 
Any way, all of these things the true Christian has been set free from. Vs 7 in these things too you once walked. 

Meaning apart from Christ we used to walk these paths. Now as a believer in Christ we are set free. We may still have some scars. But the true Christian is more concerned with Jesus than with these things from which they have been set free. They may still have struggles. Sure. If you cut your leg off, and are given a new prosthetic leg, you would need to learn to walk again.  You still have a new leg. But you have scars you’re working to over come. 

No one learns to walk over night. Babies take a long time to learn. I read that on average it takes between 9 and 18 months for most babies to learn to walk. Some of you all were gifted in that regard. Some were on the slower side. Apparently I was slow to learn to crawl, and refused to try until they bribed me with cookies. So those of you that take longer sometimes I can relate. Some of us are slower than others and that’s fine. There is a very real sense in which we are going to be working and struggling against sin for the rest of our lives. Its such a big and all encompassing thing that as soon as you think you have it beat in this area we learn of a new area where we have been sinning against God that we need to work on, and to use the learning to walk analogy, we have to learn to walk all over again but as it relates to this new area of sinfulness. New habits have to be created. New ways of thinking. New depths of learning about our selves, and why we do some of the things we do, so that we can mark and avoid the things that will make us stumble. 

I started to go here a few minutes ago. But its time we bring it back up. don’t change because I told you to, or because you’re concerned I’ll think less of you. Change because you know those words are part of the reason Jesus had to be nailed to that cross. Because our carlessly using foul language required Jesus to have been flogged a death sentence minus one, because our sin, our pornayuh our sexual immorality, required him to carry the cross to the top of the hill, lay down upon it, and be nailed to it through his hands and feet. Change because in the words of that old hymn: 

… How deep the Father's love for us,
How vast beyond all measure!
That He should give His only Son,
To make a wretch His treasure.
How great the pain of searing loss!
The Father turns His face away;
As wounds which marred the Chosen One
Bring many sons to glory.
… How deep the Father's love for us,
How vast beyond all measure!
That He should give His only Son,
To make a wretch His treasure.
How great the pain of searing loss!
The Father turns His face away;
As wounds which marred the Chosen One
Bring many sons to glory.
… Behold the man upon a cross:
My sin upon His shoulders;
Ashamed I hear my mocking voice
Call out among the scoffers.
It was my sin that held Him there
Until it was accomplished;
His dying breath has brought me life:
I know that it is finished.
… I will not boast in anything:
No gifts, no power, no wisdom;
But I will boast in Jesus Christ:
His death and resurrection.
Why should I gain from His reward?
I cannot give an answer;
But this I know with all my heart:
His wounds have paid my ransom.
… Why should I gain from his reward?
I cannot give an answer;
But this I know with all my heart:
His wounds have paid my ransom.

Because of what he did on the cross. We have been hidden in Christ with God. 

3:1 If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. 2 Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. 3 For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. 4 When Christ who is your[a] life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.

As Christians when people see us, they shouldn’t see Greg, or Dottie, or Kathy or Ken. They should see Jesus. 

When people look at us, as Christians, they shouldn’t see first and foremost our love for this party or that one. 

When people look at us they shouldn’t see anything but Jesus. Because we are hidden in Christ with God. 

We are not our own. 

We have been bought for a price, an extremely high price. Our opportunity to be free from sin cost Jesus everything. The satisfaction of the wrath of God cost him his son. 

Prices both freely paid for you and for me. 

A musician named Earnie Haase once said “I want to be so full of Christ that if a mosquito bites me he flies away singing “power in the blood”. 

That is how we live our lives in a manner worthy of the price paid for us. It not going to be an easy road. It’s a road we will walk for the rest of our lives. Were going to stumble. Trip. Fall. Skin our knees. We are going to say and do things we shouldn’t, things that bring shame to us, and that reflect poorly on our savior. Things Jesus paid the price for the moment of our salvation. The best we can do, is try and do better tomorrow than we did today. Reflect Jesus a little better tomorrow than we did today. Spend more time in our bible this year than last. Spend more time in prayer than we have been. Keep putting one foot in front of the other and continue marching towards Jesus. Even when we fail. And we will. Get back up and keep walking. Keep your eyes on the prize. Keep Christ as your focus. 

Paul writes in verse 12 and following: 12 Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, 13 bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. 14 And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. 15 And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful. 16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God. 17 And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.

Imagine what the world would look like if we were clothed in compassion all the time. I fell short here this week. With this lady that was employing abusive language, and driving in an insane manner. I didn’t cuss, or give any gestures, but I surely could have handled it better. With more kindness, meekness, and patience. Bearing with one another. Forgiving one another. 

This whole passage is filled with things that are marked by having been made a new creation in Christ. There is a harmony there, a peace there. It’s a place of community and love. 

Its hard to live this out day to day with people that are unlovely, and yet this is to be our goal. One we can only reach with the help of Jesus Christ. 

These are goals to aspire to because we have been hidden in Christ with God. Because God has chosen us vs 12. Of all the people in the whole world. God chose you, if you’re a believer in God its because he chose you. Warts and all. All the unlovely moments included. All the sin. All the things we think of as good too. 


All of that starts with the gospel. 

Gospel presentation. 