IS 43:16-25

Our people group of the week are the Christians in Syria. Syria is a hard place to be a Christian generally, and especially since the civil war a while back. You might remember Isis and later ISIL, well Syria and Iraq was where they got their start. They took brutality to a whole new level under a guy named Abu Bakr. He was violent and maschoistic. Under his leadership (till 2019) they were one of the bloodies regimes in recent history. The EU, and british parliament both called on ISIL to stop the genocide they were committing against Christians generally, and Assyrians specifically. The Assyrian people group in Syria is almost completely a Christian people group.  One of the things Abu Bakr was most known for was kidnapping women and raping and sometimes brutally murdering them on camera and disseminating the video to shame her family. To use that brutality to ensure his power. Even American women weren’t safe. At least one American woman was kidnapped and made to be a part of his regular rape harem. If he had an enemy locally or even a political rival he would send in a suicide bomber, and blow any opponent up. 

Still today even though this tyrant is dead, his legacy lives on in that Christians are often executed, or forced at gunpoint to convert to islam, and a few are given the option to remain Christian, but they have to trade their wealth for it. Even now its not a safe place to be a Christian woman, because they are seen to be of a lower status, raping them, kidnapping them, and even to a point murdering them is approached with a chilling non-chilance. 

Syria in general is about 5% Christian, there are still something like 18 people groups there that are unreached and unengaged. The Christians of Syria are asking for our prayers today. 

I mean just try and imagine raising a family there? Raising a daughter there… 

They don’t seek out persecution, but a by product of living out their faith in a place as hostile as that is without a doubt strong persecution. Who will pray for Syria, and its people? 

Imagine for a second you woke up tomorrow and were in a place like Syria. Would it affect how you lived your life? 

I was reading a book a while back about a dc medical examiner, and there was a scene with her 10 or 12 year old niece where the niece said that only bad people have bad things happen to them. Good people by extension only have good things happen to them. 

Isn’t that a sweet kind of spring chicken thing for someone to say? Only bad people experience bad things, and good people only experience good things. But I’ll tell you this kind of thinking is more wide spread than you’d imagine, and its even invaded churches, and pastors. 

Said differently it’s the idea that we are living our best life now. Or that if we just have enough faith we will only experience good things, and never bad ones. That we will all be healthy, wealthy, and safe. 

But how did that work out for The disciples? Paul was beheaded. Peter was crucified upside down. Andrew was crucified somewhere in Russia which was called the (and I quote) land of the man eaters. Can you imagine if the average church attender today was told by God to go live with the cannibals? I can hear it now… “I… I just don’t think God would will for me to go somewhere so hard, if God wanted me to do it it would be comfortable, safe, and prosperous. Where is my security in the LAND OF THE MAN EATERS. But Andrew went there any way, he preached his heart out, and was crucified. 

The disciple Thomas, he would have been the apostles that worked his way through Syria, through the people we prayed for today. Ultimately he went through much of India also, before he was “pierced through, with the spears of four souldiers. Philip went into north Africa, and asia minor, where he shared the gospel with the wife of the roman proconsul. In retaliation, the proconsul put Thomas to death! Where is the security in that? The comfort? The ease? Being Christian isn’t easy. It doesn’t mean we are going to follow a primrose path. It doesn’t mean we are on easy street. In this life. As Christians, we live for the next one. 

The disciple Mathew, who wrote the book of Mathew in your new testament, he served in Ethiopia among other places, and was ultimately stabbed to death. 

When James died, it is believed the Syrians, again an apostle to the country today asking for prayer, the Syrians of James age decided to put James to death. So they gathered up the largest heavies stones they could, and threw them down on his head with all their strength. Trying to crush James skull. When the efforts of the crowd to stone him failed, they pulled out their clubs and beat him to death. Security indeed. 

Each and every disciple suffered, lacked wealth, lacked comfort, and lacked security in life, and all the up to their death. Even John, the only one not directly killed for his faith, was exiled to a stony little prison island. Where he lived in a small cave and had rocks for pillows. 

I mean, when I’m ready for bed, I know I always think, boy I can’t wait till I can lay my head down on a nice cushy rock.  Of course not.  That’s not comfort is it? 

And so if we believe the argument of this world, we’d have to accept the idea that somehow the disciples made a mistake. That they weren’t following God quite right. 

I argue they knew the biblical truth, and to quote Jesus, who said “in this world you will have troubles, but take heart because I have over come the world”. 

Life, and this world is going to be hard sometimes. A faithful life is going to be marked by struggle and persecution. 

Lets read our passage. IS 43:16-25

I love that God reminds them he’s sovereign over the animals, the scary ones, and the others ones too. He’ reminds them he was sovereign over the winds and the waves when he led them out of Egypt. Boy I bet that didn’t feel safe. Imagine walking across the sea on dry ground. Most people in our country don’t neccesarily know this, but that’s a deep sea. Its not like crossing a mountain stream, it’s a big big body of water. At its widest point its over 200 miles across, and at its deepest point its nearly 10 thousands feet. It averages a mear 200 ft deep though. Imagine being the Israelites and seeing a wall of water to your left and right over 200 feet tall. That’s much of the length of a football field. I bet it didn’t feel at all secure to be walking between those giant walls of water, with the Egyptian army following behind. But God saw them through. It was his will for them to survive, and the Egyptians to fall. 

The passage reminds us of when They needed water in the desert. I bet that didn’t feel great as an Israelite. Walking through a hot dusty desert for decades. Reacing points where you were out of water, and so was everyone else. Youre looking at your child, explaining you’re out of water, and it might be a few days. But Did God let them die of thirst? Certainly not. 

Martin Luther wrote “feelings come and feelings go and feelings are deceiving, my hope is in the word of God nothing else is worth believing”. 

Even though we aren’t neccesarily promised wealth, and health, and safety, God promises a few things. Firstly that he will always be there with us.  Heb 13:5 says Keep your life afree from love of money, and bbe content with what you have, for he has said, c“I will never leave you nor forsake you.” 6 So we can confidently say, 
d“The Lord is my helper; 
eI will not fear; 
what can man do to me?” 
Its almost as though the author of Hebrews was living for the life to come, and not for this temporary short lived life. Because as you have read this week if you’ve been following along with our plant to read through the bible in a year, the grass withers and the flowers fade, but the word of our Lord lasts for ever. 

Or later in the same chapter, those that wait on the lord will renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint”. In that same chapter of Isaiah it says they will have more energy than young people. Ive seen some of the young ones running around. We used to have this one child, who was super excited about everything. It didn’t matter what it was it was his favorite thing ever. He’d get a glass of water, and He’d be like “THANK YOU SO MUCH!!!!!! This is the best glass of water ever!!!!!”. His excitement and enthusiasm and zest for life was contagious, but those that follow the Lord will have more energy even than him. If you guys remember him, you’ll know how remarkable that thought is. Kid was like the energizer bunny .

When we are in Christ, and reading his word, and worshipping him, and fellowshipping with other believers, and praying, and sharing the gospel, when we are living like we ought, regardless of the trial we are enduring we will have what we need to endure the day. Even if that means we need enough energy to run circles around that wonderful little boy. Even if we are facing circumstances we cant even imagine having to bear up under. Even if that means we wake up one morning and this world is like Syria. Hostile to Christians. Being murdered for your faith or ethnicity. Even if God asked us to walk the path he asked his son, and the disciples to walk. One that ultimately leads to death, on the cross, or by lions, or by swords ripping us apart, or being crucified upside down, or isolated and alone on a lonely rock of an island with a cave, and your thoughts for company. God will not lead you to, something he won’t help you get through. So one day I hope we are all like Paul who wrote 11 I am not saying this because I am in need, for I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances. 12 I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. 13 I can do all this through him who gives me strength.

SO He will be there with us. He will equip us for the day. He will supply us with energy and strength in the midst of the storm. 

And so we can weather whatever this life throws at us. We know that not because of our feelings. But because of the word of God. 

Afterall Martin Luther wrote “feelings come and feelings go and feelings are deceiving, my hope is in the word of God nothing else is worth believing”. 

So when things are hard, we can turn to Jesus who will be our strength, and our shield, our helper, our fortress, our deliverer. He is our hope, and our very present help In times of need. He will see us through, even when we cant see a way out, he can deliver us. Even when that way out means we end up crucified upside down. We will be delivered to Glory in heaven with our savior. 

But all of that starts with the gospel. 



