I want you to open with me to Isaiah 49:22-25 Page ___ in the small print pew bible, and Page ___ in the large print. If you open your bible about to the middle, you’ll find Psalms. Keep moving towards the end of your bible – past proverbs, and song of Solomon, if you get to Jeremiah or Lamentations you’ve gone too far. 

While you’re turning to Isaiah 49, I wanted to take a moment to remember Billy Graham. He was a force in this past century within the church. There are few lives he hasn’t touched. I read an estimate that said he had shared the gospel with more than 215m people conservatively. Which didn’t include his ministries in more than 80 countries where his presence drew hundreds of thousands to his crusades. 

He was also an important political presence. Did you know he played a role in the civil rights movement? Remember when MLK was arrested? Did you know it was Billy Graham that bailed him out? It was part of how he came to have the nickname the great “legitimater”. Harvard wrote of him: “By then his presence conferred status on presidents, acceptability on wars, shame on racial prejudice, desirability on decency, dishonor on indecency, and prestige on civic events.” Whatever you think of the man, he was a giant force in the church of the last 100 years and shaped a lot of our thinking. 

May it be said of us we were as faithful to share the gospel as Billy Graham has been. 

OK, are we all there?  Good.  Lets read Isaiah 49. 

So our passage starts out with God speaking. The words we read are all things that God said to Isaiah. Before this all can start to make sense we need to know what came before it. In the interest of time I’ll summarize – but I encourage you to read it at home. Isaiah had a god given ministry as prophet to the nation of Israel. God used him in powerful ways and gave him prophecies that still have meaning today. How cool would that be? In a time when not everyone could expect an answer directly from God, in a time before we had the holy spirit living in us, before we had a mediator between us and God, Isaiah could speak directly to God, and received answers directly from God. Not just little nudges here and there, not through a written word, but actual conversation, long answers from God on whatever was bothering him. Pretty cool huh? 

So Isaiah could talk to God. God responded. Isaiah had just spent a number of verses talking to God. Isaiah felt like a failure. God had given him a mission. Prophets were to give the word of God to the people, and then the people were supposed to return to God. This was an interesting time to be a prophet. The nation of Israel was drowning in Idolatry. Remember a few weeks back we were in the book of Hosea, reading about how he was asked to take a prostitute as a wife? That was during the life of Isaiah. Remember  we read from Jeremiah 3 the following week? That was during the life of Isaiah. Remember the rebellious prophet that was swallowed by a big fish, and spat up on shore at Nineveh? That happened during Isaiahs life and ministry. A tiny city was founded by a pair of people that would greatly shape history going forward. They were called Romulous and reemus… They founded a tiny little hamlet you may have heard of called rome. That too happened during Isaiahs life. More importantly to Isaiah there was a group of war like people gaining power in the area. They kept attacking and whittling away at Israel. In fact before they were done, they conquered the lands of the samarians, and all of the northern kingdom. This Assyrian captivity was devastating as families were ripped apart, individuals turned into slaves in a foreign land. In fact, a number of decades after the death of Isaiah three young men refused to bow and worship the monarch. As a result they were tossed into a firey furnace. A fourth young man a few decades later refused to stop praying to God and was tossed in with some lions. Are these stories familiar? Good. So you know where we are then. Israel is worshipping idols of wood, sleeping with prostitutes in the temple, and God has begun to remove his hand of protection from them. He is allow their arrogance and conceit to have its full course in their life, and as a result these people that think they don’t need God end up getting captured by the enemy. Isaiah ends up in exile, or captivity in Assyria. God gives him messages for the jews, but rather than re-turn to God they continue to engage in debauchery. They continue in their sin, and Isaiah feels like a failure. He says to God You made me this way, you gave me this task, and I have labored in vain. All of my strength has been spent for nothing but vanity. God replies earlier in the chapter and says “but wait theres more”. You may think your job was to bring Judah back to me, but the things you’re doing, the messages I’m giving you are going to be a light to the nations. Its as though God says you may not be able to see what I’m doing now, but wait. One day it will all make sense. Here we are almost 3000 years later reading Isaiahs message, enjoying the light of his revelation from God. Sitting in similar circumstances are we not? We are children of God and citizens of heaven living in a foreign land full of temptations. Not the least of which is to identify too deeply with the our adopted foreign land. I love my country, but I feel like it is an easy pitfall to identify more as an American than as a child of God. Americans worship the idol of comfort, of success, of wealth, of materialism. I read a study recently that had been published in 2011, and concluded that the average American susbstitutes true love for material possessions. The theory was that we as a people love less than we ought to, and so to fill the void that is left we buy things to try and feel fulfilled. But things will never fill the hole meant for God. 

Secondly It struck me that Isaiah, and many of the prophets in general sort of had a parental ministry towards God’s people. As a parent do we not try and take God’s objective standard and move our kids toward it? The prophets were trying to do the same thing. Trying to raise the “children” to abide by God’s word, God’s ways. 

They even asked God to punish the nation from time to time. Remember Elijah and the drought? Elijah was only perhaps 50 years before Isaiah. Elijah asked God to strike at the heart of baal worship and prove Baal was a useless stick. A couple years later in one of my favorite stories of the old testament Elijah and the prophets of baal had a showdown. God proved himself true, and the prophets of baal were rounded up and executed as the lying thieving con men they truly were. 

God punishes his children in a variety of ways. But usually in ways that correspond with how we have gone astray. Like with Baal and the droughts. Baal worship was largely about sex with prostitutes, which they believed would trigger rain. So when god caused a drought, and no number of prostitutes could bring back the rain, they came to realize. After several years, some of them realized baal was a false god. 

So for a country that over values comfort, God allows discomfort. That can come in a variety of ways.  Most of the ones I could think of revolved around natural disasters that cause us to loose power. 

I have a friend that is convinced every single natural disaster is a divine punishment from God. Every time there is a minor earth quake, a strong wind, or a bad rain he spends hours reading news papers to find out why God was punishing those people. Sometimes the things he comes up with make sense. The day Katrina hit New Orleans they were having a mega convention of homosexuals. He said bunches of gay people were getting arrested for sex in public, and all sorts of things that were across the line – even in a place that celebrates debauchery, nudity and drunkeness through mardi gras. Any way. He’s convinced Katrina was a punishment for the debauchery surrounding this homosexual convention. Maybe it is, maybe it isn’t. Only God knows for sure. Is it within his power? Absolutely. We witnessed God’s hand moving against the hurricane recently ourselves. It was not that long ago we were spared the devastation of Irma. But sometimes a natural disaster is just that. 

Another idol americans worship is money. We have 4 % of the worlds population, but more than 40% of the worlds wealth. We are indeed a blessed nation. But when we worship the money rather than the creator sometimes God allows us to go through times when money becomes scarce. When we have to depend upon God for our provision, for our security, for our safety. There are a dozen ways he allows us to be punished. Sometimes as individuals, and sometimes as a people. 

There are a number of us that have children or loved ones that are struggling. People that are straying from the Lord. People that are living in sin, and persuing their own pleasures and persuits instead of the Lord. 

We are God’s children are we not? So when he says “I will contend with those who contend with you, and I will save your children” I feel like we can rest in that. We can rest in the new testament verses that say I know the plans I have for you, plans for Good and not for evil, and verses like the psalm that says “raise up your child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart”. These are promises that we can cling to. I think we can pray that over our kids too. Vs 26 talks about how the oppressors of Israel will be dealt with severely. I think we can pray for that too – that God’s justice would rain down upon those who seek to do our children harm, who seek to draw them away from the Lord and what is right. Because in this world there are so many out there trying to hurt and confuse our kids. I know of one teen whose being told by her mom that shes not really a girl, that shes a boy. Think back to when you were newly a teenager, going through puberty, and now add in the confusion that comes with your parent telling you that. Can you imagine? Not to mention being told about sex, and how to have, and the names and how to engage in various sexual positions… Preassure to have the same “stuff”, to wear certain clothes, and conform to whats “cool”. Some of them fall into drugs, and alcohol to cope with the preassure and stress, anxiety, and confusion. We absolutely need to be in prayer for our kids. Asking God for their protection from those who would seek to do them harm. 

vs 24 and 25 really resonated with me though, and were going to end on these two verses today. 

Because prey can be taken from the mighty. You know growing up some of the best kids had the absolutely worst parents, and some of the worst kids had the best parents. Good parents (the mighty) can have their kids end up traveling down some dark roads. I think everyone can relate to that. We all have people we love fall prey to the tyranny of sin and our enemy. 

Folks we are in good company with that. Remember David – man after God’s own heart? One of his kids raped another of his kids. two of his kids murdered two of his other kids. two of his sons started two separate rebellions that almost worked against his father David. For being a man after God’s own heart, his family was a wreck! Sometimes the problem is bad parenting. But the root of all of these things is sin. Were it not for Adam and eve’s sins in the garden, we would not have any of these issues. 

I mentioned Billy Graham earlier, his last post on facebook talked about some kind of related things. He was talking about people embracing sin, and how that’s on them. Well rather than tell you about it, I’ll just read it. He wrote:    "If you went for a walk in the woods, but then decided to wander off the path, and found yourself surrounded by a thicket of thorns and poison ivy, who would you blame? Would you blame the person who built the path? No, of course not. Instead you'd blame yourself if you were honest, because you alone were responsible for wandering from the path.  In a far deeper way, this is what happens when we decide to leave God out of our lives. For a time, it may seem like wandering away from Him doesn't make any difference; it may even seem easier and freer. But eventually it catches up with us—just as wandering off that path and into the thicket caught up with you." 

As Christian parents we have a promise – that if we raise our children in the way they should Go, then when they are old they will not depart. 

That may mean in the middle they wander and stray, or become prey to the tyrant, but the God we serve, the good God make creator of heaven and earth is stronger than our enemy. He has already won the battle. Our enemy just hasn’t gotten the memo yet. 

Maybe you’re here today and you can Identify with what Billy Graham wrote. Maybe you realize you’ve wandered off the path, and you’re stuck in a thicket of thorns and poison ivy. God is waiting right there to help us, all we have to do is ask. You see each and every one of us has done that. We have all wandered off the path. Scripture said we would. Scripture says all of us have a sin nature that makes us desirous of going the wrong way. Romans 3:23. Gospel. 
