The Khmer of Cambodia are our people group that we need to be praying for today and this week. You’ve heard of the khmer rouge, or the movie the killing fields of Cambodia? That is where over one million people were killed by the communists of Cambodia. It is a difficult mission field. There are nearly 15m Khmer people, and nearly all of them are bhudist. There are precious few people working in this wild corner of the world. Pray for the Lord of the harvest to send out workers, and pray for the workers there to be encouraged and invigorated as they share the gospel. 

Wasn’t that a great movie Thursday night? As great as it was, they never quite live up to the book though, so I hope you will still read the book. If anyone is interested were talking about a second showing. If youre interested talk to me after the service and if there is enough interest we will put something together. First of all, if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have please open with me to the Gospel of John, if you haven’t there should be a bible in the pew in front of you. 

Open kinda to the middle and go right, look for Mathew mark luke then john, if you reach acts or romans you’ve gone too far. 

And while you’re turning there, I want to talk about an important concept. There were two things that every pilgrim had to do or they would get in trouble, who can tell me? Right, stay on the straight path, and the second thing is to start at the wicket gate. 

One of those is easier to answer than the other, who can tell me what it means to stay on the kings road? Maybe one of the kids knows? 

Great that’s right, it means to follow Jesus. Was there ever a time when it would have been good for Christian to not follow Jesus, to not follow the kings road? Youre right. What happened with people wandered away from it? Trouble right? 

Its like that in our lives too. As believers in Jesus Christ, when we do anything else but what Christ wants we are opening a can of worms, we are heading down these side roads that lead to nothing but trouble. It strikes me that we are easily distracted by shiny things. We are all told we have the God given right to pursue life liberty and happiness. I’m not sure where they find that in scripture. What God wants from us is obedience. He gives us a map, and instructions, and we are so quick to turn to the right or the left. To turn from Christ and towards whatever shiny bauble crosses our path. Christian in the movie turned away a couple of time. First he followed the advice of worldly wiseman, and turned to legality hill and tried to naviage the maze of legalizm in his attempt to get rid of his burden of sin. But did that help? No. He ended up more battered and bruised than he was to start with. He was hit by rocks, and fell down the side of the hill. He had to run and duck, and ended up in more peril and worse shape than if he had simply followed his map to begin with. In another place the kings road is bumpy, and a short wall ran along side the kings path, and on the other side of the wall was this lush beautiful green meadow. Nice soft grass, no rocks. No problems right? So they hop the wall, and are caught in a storm and are trapped by the giant despair and his evil wife. Would they have crossed into the giants country if he had stayed on the kings road? Certainly not. The giants did everything they could to depress and cause the pilgrims to grow weary and depressed and to despair of life. That didn’t happen when he stuck to the kings road. Leaving the kings road led to trouble every time it was tried. 

So many of the cultural issues of today are related to this. Look at people that do drugs or alcohol, they are either not feeling, or feeling too much and they decide to try and control that. They want the high, or the low that the drugs and alcohol cause so they can avoid feeling and thinking certain ways, so they can force their body up or down so they can feel the way they want to. In thinking the drugs and alcohol are a lush green pasture they end up getting swallowed up and imprisoned by their own choices. 

But we do that in other areas too don’t we? People do that with sex, and food, and the truth. People twist things in their own mind so that whatever perversion their heart desires, whatever deviation from the path on the map from God seems better in their own mind and heart than the things God desires for us. The sexual revolution of the 60s and 70s is a great example of this. We as a culture decided that we didn’t care for the path and directions that God had given us for sex, and so we rejected what his plan was, and we began experimenting. Our own enjoyment of sex became our guiding principle – so we started having sex with more than one partner, with other males and females, or others of the same gender, with people we had just met, with people we didn’t even care for just so the high could be felt whenever we wanted. This lead to marriages being shipwrecked on the shores of our own pleasure. Affairs and all sorts of other commitments and vows being broken. This has lead to a breadown in the family. In fact according to Very Well Familly, 1 in 2 kids today are from broken homes. Of that half, half of those kids will see a second divorce while still living at home with one of their parents. One in ten of all kids will see three or more divorces. This elevation of our own pleasure has led to some pretty serious consequences for our children. Its one thing to go through a divorce yourself, to experiencing the tearing and heartache that comes from such things, but its another thing all together for a child that did not ask to be brought into the world, that didn’t contribute in any intentional way to the divorce, to have to go through a divorce. Children who have had parents that have been through a divorce 35% more likely to have chronic headaches, speech impediements, asthma, and a broken bone than their counterparts from unbroken homes. Children of divorce are more likely to have poor grades than their peers, and according to a study in the 1980s their peers rated them as less likeable. Adult children of divorce are tend to have lower paying jobs, less college education, unstable relationships with their own kids, they are 48% more likely to become involved with drugs and alcohol. Kids are twice as likely to drop out of highschool, and in fact are significantly more likely to end up tangled up with gangs and so forth. 

The worst statistics I found from very well, is that children and adults of divorced homes – according to a study that began in the early seventies and continues till today, found that 90% of all of those that commit suicide come from broken homes. Half of all children from broken homes commit suicide. The bill for the sexual revolution is in, and the cost is being paid with our childrens blood. We wander off the path, we think its going to be fun, and maybe it is fun for a while, but its not fulfilling in the long term. These things don’t leave us with true and losting joy, and hope, and love. They leave us empty and despairing or worse they leave our kids that way. If you knew that a seemingly innocent fun thing you do today, would cost your kid their life tomorrow, would you still do that thing? Of course not. Yet we are finding out that frequently it is our kids that pay the greatest prizes for our selfishness. For our rebellion against God and his plan. 

There was this one city called vanity fair, and in vanity fair was the fullness of every worldly pleasure. Food and drink and men or women, and clothes, and amusements and so forth. They were incensed by the idea that there were things that were desirable that the world couldn’t provide. One thing that struck me that everyone that lived in the city of vanity fair started out as pilgrims. But what happened to them there? They let their idols. Their own comfort, and security, and lavish living, and their own sense of what was fun, and good overcome what they knew God wanted from them. Have you ever done something that you knew was bad, and your mom or dad or grandparent or teacher caught you? That’s what these people in vanity fair were doing. They ALL knew exactly what God wanted from them, and yet they were disobeying God. 

Time and time again that lead to punishment in the story, as kids when you do that in life, what happens? Your parent punishes you too don’t they? Parents punish kids because they love you and they want you to grow up to be a good person. God sometimes punishes us too, sometimes that is through life circumstances, and sometimes its more direct. I want to show you a short clip from Pilgrims Progress:1hr31m thru 1hr 35m 35s

When indeed Christian. When indeed will we learn that we need to hold tight to the kings path. His rules are not arbitrary and violating them is not without consequence. His map is straight and true, and leads us right to his presence which is the only place you can find true and lasting peace and hope and joy. 

let’s talk about the wicket gate. Someone read John 10:7-11

Any guesses what or who the wicket gate might be? In the movie there was this giant statue of an angel on the side of a mountain, and all true pilgrims had to start there on their journey. In the book it was a tall wicket gate. In truth, God through the holy spirit starts chipping away at Christians hard heart of stone long before he ever gets to the wicket gate. He’s working on Christian from the moment Christian realizes he has a burden. He’s working on Christian as Christian meets the evangelist, and all along the way to the point of salvation at the cross. That road starts with meeting Christ. There is not a single point in a persons life that is more important than the moment they become a believer in Jesus Christ. A great preacher named Charles Spurgeon. I quote him almost every week for those of you who have been here before, for those of you that haven’t, Spurgeon was probably the best preacher of his day. He spoke clearly and with authority to the issues of his day, and God used him, and Scripture to really shape the thinking, and culture and hearts of his day. More importantly Spurgeon was quick to share the gospel. God used his ministry to help many folks find the wicket gate, like he used evangelist in our movie tonight. Any way, spurgeon wrote “ If Christ be anything, he must be everything. O rest not till love and faith in Jesus be the master passions of your soul”. We can do no better, we can be no safer, we can be no more secure than when we are in the center of God will for our life. That doesn’t mean we won’t encounter troubles. We have all encountered troubles. Davids lift is making scary sounds, and the lift company, MTS is literally turning a deaf ear to it. Imagine tomorrow you woke up and your independence was threatened. Imagine your freedom was threatened. That’s basically where dave is. But he has peace because he knows who is in control. He has comfort because he knows God will provide a way. He may have some nerves along the way, but that’s normal. Christian tonight was afraid of the lions. But he pressed on. 

But all of that begins with a relationship with Jesus Christ. Going to church is a good thing. But on its own, that’s not enough. Being a good person is a good thing, but on its own, that’s not enough. I am personally dependent upon, and appreciative of the money you folks contribute every Sunday, and I’m glad you give. But one day, when you’re standing face to face with God in heaven, he isn’t going to care about your check book. He’s going to ask you about your relationship with His son jesus Christ. 

If you have a relationship with jesus Christ, then you have no worries. But if you don’t, you have no hope. Scripture is very clear that there is no amount of Good deeds that we can do to overcome even a single sin we’ve committed in our lives. Safe to say we have all committed more than one sin have we not? 


In fact lets look at those scriptures. Lets start with Romans 3:23. Lets all turn there. For all have sinned and fallen short of the Glory of God. You know kids are born knowing how to sin. You don’t have to teach them to tell a lie, you don’t have to teach them how for them to try and take an extra cookie when they aren’t supposed to. We are born with a defect in our hearts that cause us to love the things we shouldn’t, to lust after sin with our whole heart. Its like we’ve been playing in the mud. Were covered in it like pliable and Christian were covered in mud from the Slough at the beginning of the movie. 

Now turn with me to Romans 6:23, just a couple pages over. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. So because our hearts are tainted by sin, and because that overflows into our actions, and thoughts, the payment we earn is death. The wages of our sin is death. We will not only die a physical death one day, but after that we will spend an eternity in Hell paying for our crimes. 

God is holy, and perfect, and just, and loving. But because of his nature, and because of our dirt, we cant be with him in eternity. Sin seperates us from God. Even just one sin is enough. If we are being honest, each of us has committed more than one sin haven’t we. 

That’s the bad news. The good news is that 2000 years ago God sent his son Jesus to die on the cross for our sins. We deserved death, and hell, but he took our place. As a result we have access to the free gift of God which is Eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord. 

John 3:16 – and this is a big part of easter – John 3:16 says for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son that whosoever shall believe in him will not perish but have everlasting life. 

Jesus paid a debt for you and I that he did not owe. He paid with his life on good Friday two thousand years ago. So that one day, if we have a relationship with him, we can spend an eternity in heaven. 

The most important parts of the easter story are Christ’s death, burial and resurrection. Christ died. There were thousands of witnesses and dozens of mens lives on the line. If a soldier failed in his task to kill someone at a crucifixion their own lives were forefeit. There were scores of people that witnessed his burial. More than 500 people witnessed his resurrection. Who else has died, and gone to the other side, and then came back to tell us the way? No one else in human history has done that!

This isn’t something we can earn either, turn to Eph 2:8-9 someone read it out. For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith, and this is not of your self, it is the gift of God lest anyone should boast. Not only did none of us earn our salvation, but no one is capable of earning it. 

Fortunately for us it’s a free gift. Romans 10:9 says confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead and you will be saved. So if you’ve never come to that point, come talk to me before you go. 


Communion
that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, 24 and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, “This is my body, which is for[b] you. Do this in remembrance of me.”[c] 25 In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.” 26 For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.

Announcements
Easter egg hunt following lunch. 
If enough people are interested I’ll try to secure rights for a second showing of Pilgrims Progress. 
Food Pantry 10-12
Clubs on Thursday nights
June has 5 Sundays, would like to have our fifth Sunday service outside at that point. 




