I feel like the last two weeks sermons from Ezekiel have put us on a trajectory that we need to continue to explore so this week we are going to look at the nature of grace. We talked about the nature of man and our slavery to sin apart from Christ. That flows naturally into the topic of Grace. God’s grace, and the faith the stems from it. The faith that can’t grow in an environment that is devoid of God’s grace. 

We have a lot of scripture that needs to be read this morning, so I’m going to ask for some volunteers to read from the ESV pew bibles ahead of you. Open to John 6:29, and we will be reading through vs 60. I’ll read the first eleven, then I need a volunteer for the next 10, and then someone to read the final 10. 

While you are turning there were going to talk a little bit about whats going on. This is smack in the middle of Jesus teaching ministry. He’s saying all these things in the synagogue. Think of it this way, you go to church one day, and you hear all of these strange things that you’ve never heard, or that contradict everything that you’d ever heard in church. Think of it like this, maybe I’m out of town, and a cult leader is up here in my place saying all sorts of strange things. Something like this happened to my neighbor that passed away a few years back named dawn. She was an alcoholic and resistant to church and things of the Lord. But one day someone came by and offered her shoes. She didn’t go anywhere, and didn’t have shoes, so she agreed to have a bible study in her home, in exchange for a pair of shoes. So the next week these jehovas witnesses came back, and were telling her things that contradicted what she had learned in Catholicism as a child. Things about the nature of Jesus specifically. So it freaked her out a bit, and she called me over. I was in bible college at the time, and she knew that I would tell her straight from scripture what was going on. So I go over there, and they bring up this topic, and God gives me the words to say, and their argument is defeated, and so they bring up another topic, and the same thing happened. If the discussion were a baseball game, through God’s help and guidance I was babe ruth. One of the Jehovas witnesses whose name was Carol Ann I believe began to waver. She said what I was telling her was making sense, and that it made more sense than what the JW were teaching. 

At that moment the JW’s pulled the plug, and left. They had no way to refute the word of God. The word of God is sharper than any two edged sword able to separate bone from marrow, and God’s word, and the Gospel were preached as clearly as I could that day. 

Dawn gave her life to the Lord. Four days later she was laying there with her husband, had an aneurism and died. Her husband woke up after having fallen asleep in front of the television and she had passed away. Just like that she was standing in front of the gates of heaven. But she KNEW where she was going. Because she became a believer. She had no doubts about her sin. She knew she was a sinner. She knew she was addicted to alcohol. She knew she had a mouth like a sailor. She knew much of how sinful she was. 

But God being so infinitely rich in mercy moved in her heart so that she could understand the things of the Lord, even through the alcohol. 

One of the things she and I talked about that day nearly two decades ago, was that there was nothing that one could do that was so bad that God couldn’t save them. 

Are you there yet? Or do I have time for another story? Friday morning, I was at my parents, they were both out and my sister has been out of state for a few days. Any way, I was washing up the breakfast dishes and noticed one of the sheep had gotten out. Sheep have an intuitive intelligence about a lot of things, but fences are not one of them. She had gotten out, and had no interest in leaving her babies side. Her baby wanted to nurse, but for obvious reasons couldn’t. So she sat there calling to her mom. The mom was laying there calling back. So I went to go put her back in the pen. The sheeps name is frazzle – shes kinda skittish. Normaly we entice them over with food, but she had already eaten and had no interest. So I start walking her back over by the gate. But when we get close to a corner, she bolts, and is too fast for me to get a good enough hold on this 150+ pound animal. Round and round we went, until she was momentarily distracted by her baby and I caught her. She tried to throw her body to the ground. She tried to jump, and stomped on my toes at every chance all the way till I got her to the gate. I opened the gate, and she reared up and caught me in the chin, and I lost her for a second, but joy came bounding over and that was distraction enough for me to catch her, and finish pushing her in the pasture, and then I locked the gate. Sheep have simple minds. Her priority was her baby, and she didn’t understand her baby couldn’t get to her, nor she directly to her baby. She didn’t understand she had to go through something to get there. She didn’t understand that she didn’t understand, and so she fought me tooth and nail all the way into the pasture. Her tiny brain couldn’t comprehend what was really going on around her she just knew she was getting further from her baby. In reality, her baby had followed us all the way, and had quieted down. In her fear of being handled, she lost track of where her baby was. By the time we got to the gate, the baby was just inside. But she was so focused on her own priorities that she couldn’t see that. 

It’s a pretty perfect analogy in my mind when God calls us sheep. Our minds are limited compared to Gods. Worse still they are corrupted by sin and even when we are staring the truth in the face because of the nature of the effects of sins’s corruption we see it and apart from God call it foolishness. 

But God’s grace, like a good shepherd gently corners us and draws us back to a place of eternal safety. The sheep could no more resist the shepherd than when God calls us, can we resist his loving call. 

Apart from my intervention, if I left the sheep to her own devices the best possible outcome would have been death in a few days. Maybe for her – we’ve been having foxes attacking our animals lately, but definitely for her baby. It was a kindness that she didn’t and couldn’t understand to have her free will overcome by the shepherd. 

It’s a loving gift from God when he does the same for us. 

Our passage this morning talks about this very same thing. Let read, and I want you to pay attention to what this passage says about salvation. 

The first few verses – it says “if you would but look at me and believe you will be saved” and then jesus says but you don’t believe. 

The jews grumble, and in jesus says its not really a surprise. Read vs 44 again with me “No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day”. 

We can’t believe unless God has begun to work in our hearts. I believe he drags us kicking and screaming into this work of his. Like I had to drag our sheep. I base this on scripture saying the things of the Lord are foolishness to those whom the Lord hasn’t already been working in (2nd Corinthians). Also the same greek word that the ESV translates as draw, is translated in James as Drag. Like wise Luke uses it, and its translated as Drag in acts as well. 

God’s grace is capable of overcoming our free will. 

We don’t like to think in those terms do we? But yet we pray for that type of action all the time. God please work in so and so to draw them to your son, to draw them back to you. To help them become a believer. We pray for God to overcome other peoples free will all the time. If it weren’t for this Jesus says, no one would ever believe in God. None of us would have ever become Christians. It was for this reason that Jesus had to die. If we were capable of fixing ourselves the God of all creation never would have had to be born a baby, in a feed trough, in a stinky barn, only to be mocked, beaten and crucified. God came to give us the gift we needed, before we ever knew we wanted it. 

Jesus goes on to say that Unless God has been teaching them, and jesus is quoting Isaiah here, that no one would come to the father. No does come unless God has worked in their hearts. 

Michael Horton writes: The Bible "locates unbelief in the total inability of sinners to effect their own liberation from the bondage of the will, and ... locate faith in the unconditional election, redemption, and effectual calling of the triune God alone. God gives not only sufficient grace (that is, enough grace to enable sinners to respond positively to God if they choose to do so), but efficient grace (that is, regeneration as well as faith and repentance as gifts)."

What great gifts! We each have contributed through our sin to the ruin we see around us in the world today. Ultimately it all goes back to Adam. But each of us in our lives apart from Christ have contributed to its current state. Even if we never rise to the level of evil of Hitler, we still contributed. 

But God comes along side us, and drags us back to green pastures, and food, and the hope of new life. 

When we talk about God having done the hard part, we are not just speaking about the cross. 

Wayne Grudem writes: calling is thus God that Father speaking powerfully to us, and regeneration is God that Father and God the Holy Spirit working powerfully in us, to make us alive. Sometimes the term irresistible grace is used in this connection. It refers to the fact that God effectively calls people and also gives them regeneration, and both actions guarantee that we will respond in saving faith.

All three persons of God are active in their own way in us at the moment of salvation. 

He quickens us while we are dead, which is no work of man. As Ephesians 2 says, “Even when we were dead in our trespasses, [He] made us alive together with Christ--by grace you have been saved.”
I know this is deep stuff. We have talked about things theologians have marveled at for centuries, and grappled with. Smarter men than I have spent their entire lives studying these deep truths of scripture. 

It took me a long time to come to a place of understanding and acceptance of this. We have been talking about this doctrine of Grace called “irresistible grace”. It builds on the radical corruption of man – or Total Depravity. It builds upon the idea of God’s grace being greater than all our sins. Like the old hymn says. Like scripture says. Its one of those truths that has been believed by the writers of scripture, but also by the church fathers, remembered anew at the protestant reformation, and embraced like a warm security blanket by Baptists and others ever since. This idea was held to by all but 13 of the near thousand of the first churches that came together and called themselves Baptist. Its in our DNA as Baptists. Its foundational to scripture and salvation. 

One of my favorite preachers of old is a man named martin loyd jones. He wrote a lot about the subject at hand, and one of the things he said is this: ”Not only is grace irresistible, it must be irresistible. For if grace were not irresistible no one would ever have been saved. 

Scripture is clear that we are utterly unable, and incapable of choosing him. So he has to choose us. 

That brings us to another theologically charged word. People sometimes get riled up when they hear it, but its an important word. It’s a word coined by paul, and that’s the term elect. 

Someone who is elect of God is someone within whom God has worked to draw, or drag us to a point where we can see clearly enough to make the decision to follow Christ. 

I believe based upon the verses we have talked about that ALL the elect are given to Christ. Christ says in vs 39 and 40 – someone read that for me John vs 39 and 40. 

it’s a biblical thing that God works in some. That God calls some. That God takes our blinders off so we can see him in all of his glorious and lovingkindness. 

In that moment that God chooses to call us, there is none that are able to say no. We humans may be sheep, but we know our maker when he is revealed to us. What God has stirred in our hearts and begun teaching us, and drawing or dragging us to him, so that when we finally see him, and his glory, and understand his love for us, how can we do anything but love him back?

One more story, and then we will close. 

It was February 1941, Auschwitz, Poland. Maximilian Kolbe priest put in the infamous death camp for helping Jews escape Nazi terrorism.
Months went by and in desperation an escape took place. The camp rule was enforced. Ten people would be rounded up randomly and herded into a cell where they would die of starvation and exposure as a lesson against future escape attempts.
Names were called. A Polish Jew Frandishek Gasovnachek was called. He cried, "Wait, I have a wife and children!" Kolbe stepped forward and said, "I will take his place."
Kolbe was marched into the cell with nine others where he managed to live until August 14.
This story was chronicled on an NBC news special several years ago. Gasovnachek, by this time 82, was shown telling this story while tears streamed down his cheeks. A mobile camera followed him around his little white house to a marble monument carefully tended with flowers. The inscription read:
IN MEMORY OF MAXIMILIAN KOLBE HE DIED IN MY PLACE.

Jesus Christ died in my place. He died in your place. He died in the place of all who would look on him and believe. He died for all those whom the father has begun teaching, all those the holy spirit has been effectively drawing and sanctifying. 

Have you looked to Jesus and been saved? Have you come to that point? If not as the praise team comes, I want you to think about what we’ve talkd about this morning. We worship a God that came to earth, and died for us so that we could know him, and for his glory’s sake. 

God loved us that much that he took our place. 

If you’ve never come to the point where you’ve done what we’ve talked about today please don’t let another day go by. Come talk to me during lunch, and I show you how you can know this God that loved you that much. 
 
