Leprosy 


I was talking to someone this week, and leprosy came up; which got me thinking about how Leprosy was used in the old and new testaments and how symbolic it was. This led to me doing a lot of reading, and ultimately to the story of an old testament man who was plagued with Leprosy. Additionally it led me to a story by a missionary to India. The man was a doctor, and served in India in the 1920s. He was serving on the medical front lines to help combat a particular form of Leprosy. Up until this week, I didn’t know there were different kinds of Leprosy, but I digress. This one particular form (and maybe with all forms) of leprosy caused the bodys early warning system, the pain receptors to be turned off. As a Kid, I remember doing an experiment in science class where you light a match, blow it out, and at the appropriate moment touch the burnt out match head. Its hot enough to trigger your bodies nervous response but not so hot it burns you. Yet you can still feel the little jolt of lightning traveling from your finger to your spine, and on up to your brain alerting you that your finger is in danger. These folks didn’t have that. The man talked at length about the locals sticking their arms into a raging fire to rescue a dropped potato. Can you imagine being that hungry? Because of their condition they didn’t feel the effects of the fire, and often would not receive treatment. In the end many of these terribly poor individuals would have in effect traded their life for a potato. Any way, the man wrote about a young boy. Maybe 10 or 11 years old. The doctor was trying to open a little wooden chest he had been sent as a thank you. This doctor in the prime of his life was unable to turn the key and open the box. On a lark this young boy that was present with the doctor offered to try. Thinking “whats the harm” he handed the box to the boy. The boy grabbed the key and turned it easily opening the box. Surprised the doctor took the box back and was examining it when he noticed a bit of blood on the key. Reluctantly the boy showed his hand to the doctor, and the doctor was shocked with what he saw. You see the kid had opened the box with no trouble, but in the process, he tore the flesh clean off that part of his finger. Bone was exposed, tendon torn. The doctor at that point, obviously diagnosed the kid with this one particular form of leprosy.      
Before we look at the text, lets look at the setting. Ahaz had up until recently been king. You guys remember ahaz and Jezebell, and the ministry of Elijah? Well after a tumultuous 16 years Ahaz went to war with the Syrians. It was prophesized that Ahaz would die, so according to the historian Josephus he dressed up like a regular soldier and was struck by an accidental arrow. Thus ended the reign of King Ahaz. The man that killed Ahaz became a national hero in Syria. They probably threw parades in his honor, named streets after the guy. One way or the other they ended up making this guy named Naaman the supreme commander of their army. He was at the top of his game, he was one of the most powerful men in Syria. He would probably be on par with our own secretary of defense. Ultimately accountable to the king of Syria, but certainly at the top of his sphere of influence. If he wanted to become more powerful he would have had to be king. It is said that Naaman kneeled to no man. He was proud, he was wealthy, powerful, privilege. He’s that guy everyone wants to get to know to increase their own standing. He may have won a nobel prize, or been time’s man of the year. That show on MTV where they tour the homes of the wealthy featured his house twice.  He was blessed by God – scripture says God allowed him to beat the Israelites in battle. In fact there is a stele’e in the british musueem that shows the king of Israel bending knee to the Syrians.  I saw this back in 2009 when I was there. I believe scripture is 100% true and inspired by God, and I love it when bible stories from thousands of years ago find support by modern archaeology. This story too is supported in that way. Any way, after all his successes Naaman thought he was in control. In that moment, God allowed him to contract leprosy. Obviously, a soldier with leprosy is not a soldier for long. He wouldn’t have been able to hold his sword for long. Most with leprosy were unable to walk for long. This would likely have made him a social pariah. He might well have been kicked out of the city, out of his home. He might have lost his position. That said, lets read the text 2 king 5.  

Dr. Brand wrote, leprosy is death by degrees – bodily injury, physical scarring, ignorant abuse; a thousand different disorders – all because the ability to sense it no longer exists. Warren Wiersbe on the topic of leprosy and sin – he wrote, like leprosy, sin is deeper than the skin; it spreads; it defiles; it isolates; and it is fit only for the [judgment of God].iv Throughout the Old Testament, the judgment of God was often seen in sending leprosy to an unrepentant person.  As if to say, “Listen, you don’t think you’re a sinner – you don’t feel like you’re sinning . . . well, I’m going to give you a physical picture of what it means to be unable to recognize the danger you’re in.” Leprosy then can be viewed as an analogy – that is to say what it would look like if the effects of sin manifested themselves in an individuals body. 

I remember when I worked in the secular workforce, my co-workers lived for debauchery. Guys would embellish tales of how they seduced the stripper at the club, and then drank so much they couldn’t remember the rest of the night, but boy she still looked good the next morning. Girls likewise would regale each other with stories of their own drunken binges, their own depravity in the ways unique to girls. This one fellow I worked with showed up drunk three days in five, got drunk on lunch break pretty much every day, and the one time I saw him outside of work (surprise surprise) he was staggering around drunk at a gas station buying more booze. Yet every few months he would have to quit his job, and re-apply so as to avoid child support being taken from his check automatically. He could afford to spend his time and money drinking his life away, but refused to help his children have enough money to eat. I know people now, filling their bodies with drugs. Killing themselves one step at a time. Sin – according to weirsbe is death by degrees. This is something Naaman knew all too well. Its interesting to point out that Jesus knew of Naaman’s story as well – turn with me to Luke 4:27 - And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet; and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian (Luke 4:27). That means that Israel may well have seen her people healed of this disease, but they missed the connection and went on living their lives, going blind, limbs falling off, ultimately dying because leprosy and sin are deaths by degrees. Yet in Elisha’s time, only one was cured of leprosy – and he born into a nation that was an enemy of Israel. Its interesting that this very short sermon of Jesus was the first time we know of that Jesus preached in his hometown. He insults them twice saying that God could have sent Elijah to any Israelite, and didn’t. Further Elisha could have healed any Israelite leper, but none were fit. The point was that the people of his hometown were much like those that Elijah and Elisha passed over. He was saying in a way “why should I waste my time on you losers”. Could you imagine Jesus saying that to you? That would be a bitter pill. Your enemies are more fit to be blessed by God than you people are – he could be saying. The people get so angry that they pick Jesus up, and carry him up a hill to toss him off a cliff. Obviously, God is sovereign and Jesus escaped. But I think its fair to infer that the people of Jesus home town were spiritual lepers.  

I heard a cool story about the Washington monument the other day. The monument has just short of 900 stairs, and 50 landings on your way up. I’ve never been up the stairs, but I did take the elevator. I’ve climbed a thousand stairs before and by the time you get to the top it’s a wearying experience. But any way, there are 50 landings to allow people to catch their breath, and on each of the 50 landings there is a special stone given by a group that was supporting the building of the monument. Some of them are pretty cool – there are at least two with scripture, one is a prayer for our country from a church in a different country, and on and on these stones go clear to the top of the monument. When it was originally designed, it was intended to be the tallest building in Washington DC, so that it could be the first to catch the light of sunrise. As its capstone they made a small aluminum pyramid – aluminum because at the time it was more precious than any other metal, and wouldn’t stain the stone. On that aluminum capstone, they wrote in latin “praise God”. The creators wanted that to be the very first, and very last things the light in DC would touch every day. What a contrast to where we are now! IT seems the higher you climb in authority in DC the less likely they are to truly bend their knee to God. 

So any way the story goes that the Naaman’s wifes servent girl, upon hearing of Naaman’s leprosy went to Naaman’s wife, and told her (and this is a paraphrase) HEY, my God can cure you, seek out elisha in Israel. So Naaman went to the king, and the king told him to go to Israel and get help if he could. Naaman then shows up on the King of Israel’s doorstep and offers everything he has to be cured of leprosy. 150 pounds of Gold or roughly 4 million dollars, over 8000 pounds of silver which is close to another 4 million dollars. Not to mention the ten changes of clothes. This isn’t a great rendering of the original languages, because as we understand it what Naaman brought was huge rolls of cloth, and a taylor to make him ten outfits from the cloth. 10 outfits was more than perhaps the average Israelite would see in their adult life. This was probably everything Naaman had. Everything he could borrow from the king, from his friends…. You know the old saying about getting everything he could beg borrow or steal, that’s likely the case here. Every coin he could scrape together would have been presented. Namaan was a pretty famous soldier in his land. 


Then Naaman meets the king. We don’t have record of the king of israel praying about it, or even thinking about the renoun prophet Elisha. He simply throws a conniption fit. Don’t miss this folks – this would be like Osama bin Laden (Naaman) coming to America to seek medical help after 9/11. Except Israel was not in a position to do much against Naaman. The king of Israel thought it must be some type of trap. You remember the Trojan horse? Leave a gift, loaded with men, and so when the time was right they could spring the trap and attack the city from the inside and kill everyone. I think the King suspected something like that – a massive trap. Naaman wouldn’t have been traveling alone. He would have had the Syrian version of the secret service following him around. He would have had his wife, any children, servants, flocks of sheep, grain, and servants enough to tend everything they would need for this lengthy trip. This would have been an imposing force showing up on The Israelite kings doorstep. Notice with me what happens instead: 

vs 8 And it happened when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes (and why), that he sent word to the king saying, “Why have you torn your clothes?  In other words, why have you not thought of God and His salvation?  Why have you let fear override your faith? Now let him come to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel.

That is Elisha’s way of saying “God is alive and well, and he is sovereign even over the Syrians. 

Which leads us to our passage from the Baptist faith and message. 

II. God

There is one and only one living and true God. He is an intelligent, spiritual, and personal Being, the Creator, Redeemer, Preserver, and Ruler of the universe. God is infinite in holiness and all other perfections. God is all powerful and all knowing; and His perfect knowledge extends to all things, past, present, and future, including the future decisions of His free creatures. To Him we owe the highest love, reverence, and obedience. The eternal triune God reveals Himself to us as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, with distinct personal attributes, but without division of nature, essence, or being.

A. God the Father

God as Father reigns with providential care over His universe, His creatures, and the flow of the stream of human history according to the purposes of His grace. He is all powerful, all knowing, all loving, and all wise. God is Father in truth to those who become children of God through faith in Jesus Christ. He is fatherly in His attitude toward all men.

Genesis 1:1; 2:7; Exodus 3:14; 6:2-3; 15:11ff.; 20:1ff.; Leviticus 22:2; Deuteronomy 6:4; 32:6; 1 Chronicles 29:10; Psalm 19:1-3; Isaiah 43:3,15; 64:8; Jeremiah 10:10; 17:13; Matthew 6:9ff.; 7:11; 23:9; 28:19; Mark 1:9-11; John 4:24; 5:26; 14:6-13; 17:1-8; Acts 1:7; Romans 8:14-15; 1 Corinthians 8:6; Galatians 4:6; Ephesians 4:6; Colossians 1:15; 1 Timothy 1:17; Hebrews 11:6; 12:9; 1 Peter 1:17; 1 John 5:7.

So who can tell me what this passage says about God? Anyone?

One of the things I loved is that it shows God already working in the heart of Naaman. Read vs 1 again. God helped Naaman find victory even before Naaman cared about God. This is something God does for us, he helps us find Him, even before we know or care about him. I’m sure we have a catholic out there listening today. How many times do you think Naaman had been to confession before this? How many times did he attend church? How many times did he partake of the sacraments? And yet God in his grace and mercy was using and working in and through Naaman. We know God was working in Naaman because he listened to the servant girl. How many men would brashly have blown that off, especially back then, they figured if that God was worth anything then he would have kept his people from defeat! But Naaman heard the truth in what this girl was saying because God was already doing a work in his heart. Like he does in all of us before salvation. I think its safe to say he was truly saved because look at how he responds at the end of the chapter? He even wanted to bring the dirt of Israel home with him to set an altar upon. I used to think it was because the pagans of that era thought Gods were limited by the dirt they served over. But I have grown to think its more about trying to worship God properly, to identify himself as a person who follows the one true God. He was even having a conflict of conscience about having to help his king into the idolatrous temple when he returned. 

Secondly God healed the man even in spite of Naamans moment of unbelief. Read vs 11. Naaman is like, if its about good water, I didn’t have to uproot my family, and travel into the land of my vanquished foe, I didn’t have to risk life, and limb, and fortune to come all this way. He wanted elisha to stand over him, and sprinkle some pixie dust, and dance and chant, He wanted the cure to come in a way he that fit into the framework of his understanding about God. 

But as has been said “if you never disagree with your God, then you aren’t worshipping God you’re worshipping an idealized version of yourself”. Gods ways are above our ways. His thoughts are above our thoughts scripture says. God doesn’t need a mere man to do any of the healing. So he has Elisha send Naaman to the dirties river around. Ive read where people said when you stuck your hand beneath the river back then, it was so dirty your hand would disappear. Yet HE Naaman, had to submerge his body into this fetid nasty river 7 times, and it would cure his leprosy. He almost walked away. 

because he was so ndignant. He wanted the cure to come in an easy comfortable way. Vs 13 says some anonymous servant tugs on Naaman’s elbow and says “uhmm boss…. You should probably do what the servant of God says, humble your self, dip 7 times and be cleaned”.  Naaman relents, submits to God and is cured of Leprosy in the nasty waters of the Jordan. Why 7 times I had to ask myself. We know 7 times comes up a lot in scripture, but why 7 here and now. If you read Leviticus 14 (and were not going to have time to turn there now) you will find that the old testament process for curing a leper involved sprinkling the blood of a sacrificed animal over the leper, and then washing him in a cleansing fountain. What a picture of Christ’s sacrifice. He went to the cross for our sins. As the hymn says we are washed in the blood. That is to say because of sinless Christ’s death on the cross for our sins, we can be made clean. Elisha was playing the role of priest, and God allowed the Jordan to be the cleansing fountain. Naaman the humble, repentant sinner. Ultimately we see in vs 14, that not only was naaman healed of leprosy, the open stinking wounds he likely had by now were also healed. His skin was brand new like a babies. This is the kind of cure that you can’t buy, you can’t design. Johnson and Johnson still have not come up with a way to make your skin like a babys, nor has Pfizer designed a spray that causes your skin to knit back together. Neither one of them has never come up with a cure for sin and never will! 

There is only one cure for spiritual leprosy and that is humbling yourself before God, and asking for your sins to be covered by Christ’s sacrifice. There is no nasty water to deal with, you just have to kneel at the cross. There is no priest required. Scripture tells us we can God to Jesus directly.

Maybe you find your self like naaman today. You think you have it all together. Maybe you think you don’t have any sin to atone for. Let me tell you friend you’re in a dangerous place. Jesus says “my burden is easy and my yoke is light”. If you think you never commit a sin, that in and of it self is a sin that you ought to repent of.  

Gospel

Business meeting. 