Luke 23
The Kapali of Bangladesh. 

200000 people, and to our knowledge, not a single one that is a believer in Jesus Christ.  They are hindu, which has its own challenges because they want to add Jesus to their list of God’s they follow. They have to understand Jesus is the only real God, and that he is a jealous God. He doesn’t want to be worshipped along side 2million fake gods.   They had once been part of the highest caste – the Brahmin, but they have for various reasons been demoted to a lower caste. They live in Bangladesh. They desperately need people willing to come tell them the good news of Jesus Christ. Who is willing to pray for them today? 

Luke 23:1-25
In our passage today were going to see a story of two men. One of the men stands accused of being the leader of a rebellion, a murderer, a liar, and a thief from ceasar. The other man was Barrabas the leader of a rebellion, a murderer, liar, and thief from everyone. 

It strikes me that one man was what the hearts of the people wanted. The other man was precisely what the hearts of the people needed. 

Lets start by looking at the people of the day. 

There were copious volumes written by the Pharisees and preserved till today that talk about just what they thought was going on. Not all have been translated, so we have to depend on others who can read ancient Hebrew well and report back to us what they found in their reading. What I’ve read this week will come as no surprise to those who have heard this preached on before. The people of Israel were oppressed. They were under the thumb of roman rule, and the roman shcakles that bound them chafed. They wanted freedom from rome. They wanted to worship freely in the way they believed God wanted them to. Perhaps more importantly than all of that they wanted to maintain, and restore their power. The authority, and wealth and influence they had before Rome conquered Israel was on par with the word of God in some key ways. They would interpret the word of God for the people. This was how they ended up with so many weird rules about traveling on the Sabbath. They weren’t allowed to travel, but they could move between homes as long as they weren’t too far apart. So they would establish tent sites along their path so they could walk from point A to B without violating the Law. In the end they were still traveling, on the Sabbath. But they were meeting the requirements that the interpreters of biblical law had laid out for them. No where in scripture does it define Sabbath rest in this way! But yet that is how the law is defined. They had levels of power within the relgion like a pope does in catholicisim. In catholicisim a pope can speak inhumana vitae and whatever he says is treated like scripture. Is treated like God’s word. As a result of it being man’s word and not God’s, things became twisted, and the end result was a product that didn’t reflect scripture or God’s word. In catholicisim this lead to the protestant reformation. In Israel the system did as God intended and revealed our inability to keep His law in our own power.  But not without having been corrupted by mans corrupt nature. 

So they missed the one the whole of the old testament points to. They were so focused on themselves, and their own comforts, and their own desires that they intentionally or unintentionally missed Christ. 

The historian Josephus, the apocryphal book of 1 macabees and the book “the jewish messianic expectation” records that there were a few things the jewish leadership was specifically looking for. 

Firstly they were looking for prosperity for the jews under the King of Peace. They believed that once their God sat on the earthly throne, the peace that would abound afterwards would result in prosperity and peace for the jews. Sounds nice doesn’t it? That same delusion about perfect peace on earth persists in the teachings of several prominent folks that have television shows. If you just give me enough of your money, God’s going to give you everything you hoped for. So many groups out there, and so many tv preachers want to lead people down a primrose path. Should we give to support God’s work? Yep. Does giving mean every difficulty in life is going to smooth out, and your bank account is going to fill up with money, and your car’s never going to break down, or whatever other nonsense you “speak” into existence is going to happen? Certainly not. We can absolutely ask God for things, ask him for anything you want. Ask him for a porshe, I hope you get one. But asking does not guarantee you’ll get. Anyway, the israeilites wanted peace and prosperity. They wanted to be comfortable, safe and rich. They thought that when God finally made himself known, that would be the outcome. 

Second they wanted a strong leader like Moses or Joshua. They wanted someone who would mediate between God and their people. They wanted someone who would govern with wisdom like Moses. It strikes me that moses was able to see the shadow of God’s glory passing by, and it left him permanently changed. He was never the same afterwards. Joshua realized Moses dream and God’s promise of bringing the people into the promised land, a land of milk and honey. A land lush in grass and rich in livestock and luxury. Joshua was seen as being a formidable warrior – though the battle was the Lords, and their success or failure depending on how well Joshua listened. But that’s beside the point. They wanted a warrior priest to lead them. 

They believed the warrior priest would live forever, and triumph over all of their enemies. He would judge the dead, and the dead would rise up on the last day and judge the living. Any that died in obedience to God would be spared, and all else would be cast into hell eventually. 

That all of those who were judged worthy would look like messiah – the kingly warrior priest. All these that looked liked messiah would form a new kingdom with Messiah at its head and rule the world. He won’t have to put his trust in warrior, horse, chariot or bow. He’s messiah after all. 

So you see what they were looking for, now lets read the passage, and then look at the choices they were given. 

the first man we will look at is Barabbas. Barabbas is like a corruption of his real name. 3rd century historians record that his name was originally Jesus Bar Abbas. Bar meaning son of, and Abbas who can tell me what abba means? So his name was likely to have literally been Jesus son of the father. We aren’t told a lot about BarAbbas life before or after this point in scripture, but what it says is not encouraging. John Piper writes that Barabbas was not a mere offender in need of rehab, he was a murderer on death row. 

Luke tells us much the same in our passage today – vs 18 and 19, someone read that for me. Vs 19 says he had been thrown in prison for murder, and an insurrection started in the city.  John calls him a robber. Marks gospel calls him a murdering rebel. Mathew just calls him a prisoner. 

Its interesting to note that Josephus that ancient jewish historian calls him a Sikario. The Sikarii were assassins, and a military group. There were about 4000 of them that attacked roman and jewish leaders attempting to rule through terror. The acts of terror they committed they claimed were God’s retribution for evil deeds. But in truth, it was a sinful mans attempt to gain power. The Sikarii were sort of like todays al Qaeda. 

So if we listen to those from this time period that knew what was going on, we see that he was an assassin, a warrior, a murderer, a rebel, and a deceiver who used God as a catch phrase. 

sort of like when a politician gives a bible verse to support their position. Not because they believed that’s what the guidance of scripture was, but because they had come to their own conclusion and were now twisting scripture to meat their own ends. To gain power and authority. 

Like the time the presidential candidate accidently referenced 1 john 2:4 that verse of course says “Whoever says, “I know him,” but does not do what he commands is a liar, and the truth is not in that person.” Which had absolutely nothing to do with what the politician was trying to say, but yet was still somehow perfectly fitting way to describe that candidate. 

Barrabbas was not a nice man needless to say, but you see how for the people that don’t pay attention, they could perhaps desire his release. 

The second person they could choose was Christ. Just a week prior people were singing praises to him, and ushering him into Jerusalem with great fanfair and chants of Hosanna. Hosanna is a shout of adoration, or praise or joy. Even then they didn’t realize they had the Messiah in their midst. Everyone thought he was just a new prophet. They were excited about this. There had been about 400  years of silence from God. 400 years without a real prophet. 400 years man was allowed to run things and in those 400 years man messed things up badly. 

So it was good news that a prophet had came during a time of great turmoil. Jesus rode in on a donkey, and a donkey in those days was a sign of peace. 

While Jesus would do things like cleanse the temple, he was not a warrior. He was not a killer, he was not an assassin of roman leaders. He wasn’t out there trying to amass power and authority for himself. He came and he loved on people. He healed the sick, and the lame. He taught the message of scripture, and helped the blind to see. 

Further more Jesus had never sinned. He was completely innocent of the charges he had been accused of. Lukes gospel mentions 9 times that Jesus was completely innocent.

He never attacked anyone with a sword,or encouraged others to do so. He came to seek and save the lost. 

He was born of a virgin, lived a sinless life, constantly pointed people towards God. He was basically the opposite of Barabbas. 

Where Barabbas killed people, Jesus Christ brought people back to life. 

Where Barabbas was a liar, Christ came with the life saving truth of the Gospel. 

Where Barabbas was trying to build an earthly empire, Jesus came to point at his fathers eternal kingdom. 

Where barababs was trying to take the throne of a region by force, Christ was born to the king of Kings, of a royal line – the throne was his by right, but he chose to set that aside, and die on a cross, so that we could be with him in eternity, and for the glory of the father. 

Where Barabbas brought terror, and death and destruction, Jesus brought joy, and life everlasting, and peace, and hope and a future. 

But the Israelites present were looking in the wrong direction. They chose Barabbas. They chose to have Christ put to death. 

We do the same exact thing though when we focus on our desires and fears don’t we? 

In choosing Barabbas they thought they were going to get a warrior priest that would lead them to freedom from the tyranny of rome. 

They thought they would have comfort, and security, and freedom. They thought they would have a new moses or Joshua that would stomp their enemies into the ground, and make them wish they had never threatened God’s people. 

They feared what rome would do. They feared for their safety, their religion, their kids. But the only true source of hope, and security, and joy, and safety, and protection for their kids, and the only true living and breathing walking and talking source of God’s revelation on earth they chose to kill instead. 

So often we flee from the Lord and his will so that we can protect something, so that we can secure something, so that WE, I I I..,. so that MY stuff will be protected. Where is the focus? On ME. On what I want. That led the nation of Israel astray and it will do the same to us when we over emphasize it at the expense of our relationship with Christ. 


Jesus took the punishment Barabbas deserved. Barabbas was given mercy and grace, and a second chance. Just like us. You see we have all sinned. 

Gospel. 

Communion
23 For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which He was betrayed took bread; 24 and when He had given thanks, He broke it and said, “This is My body, which is for you; do this in remembrance of Me.” 25 In the same way He tookthe cup also after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in My blood; do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me.” 26 For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death until He comes.

Announcements: easter coming up. Candy for the egg hunt. Lots of candy. Hundreds of eggs. 
Food pantry. Clubs







Come to me all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Seek the Lord while he may be found. 

