
Luke 9:57-62
It strikes me that in a world where televangelists are really putting the prosperity gospel forward in a major way, that scripture is the antidote to that venom. You get bit by a snake, the antivenom fixes it. This is the anti-venom for the prosperity gospel. I read this week that 61% of people in our country hold to some form of the prosperity gospel. I suppose we shouldn’t be surprised by that because when you flip on Christian tv, most, at least most of the ones I could name have succumbed to this idea that Jesus wants you to be wealthy, and comfortable all the time. Someone was preaching one time, and said that “Jesus went to the cross for your comfort”. Not only is that nonsense, but its offensive. The roots of the prosperity false gospel go back to 1830s or so. There was this movement here in America called “new thought”. Not all of them were Christians. Not all of them were not. All of them were somewhat confused. One of the major proponents of this new thought was a man by the name of Ralph Waldo Emmerson. He started out with a fairly solid education, he was a graduate of the then fairly conservative Harvard Divinity School. It would be like graduating from southern seminary, or reformed theological seminary, or Dallas theological seminary today. He ran around with guys like ralph waldo Emmerson, or henry David Thoreau. I found a quote from Ralph Waldo Emmerson that summed up his position well, he wrote “I have taught but one message, the infinitude of man”. You see he thought life, and the universe and everything was made up of a mankind. Man was the highest order being, and if man would just think rightly, he could manifest basically whatever he wanted into existence. One could say speak things into reality – hear that language? I know someone who talks about being careful what you speak into existence. But its not your words that have power, not your mind is it? Emmerson would say we do. I can’t find that in scripture though, not without some pretty major twisting of some verses. Plus, look at Jesus lifestyle? One of our verses today says “Jesus replied, "Foxes have dens and birds have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head.”. You would think if the prosperity gospel were true that Jesus would have had a mansion, he is the one Christians pattern their lives after, right? To be a Christian is to follow Christ, so Christ was the first, and best Christian. The best Christian ought to have had all the opulence that comes with such a roll right? Where is Jesus mansion? Where is Jesus running around with thick stacks of cash? Where is Jesus wealth and prosperity? 

Sorry this is a pet peeve of mine. If they are preaching on tv – not always – but too often they are in this prosperity gospel camp. 

Speak your truth, and see it become a reality. As happens all too often, along comes some well meaning guy whose steeped in this kind of thinking, and tries to re-shape scripture to reflect his beliefs. At this church I do my level best to avoid that error – I want to be shaped, and reformed by scripture, rather than reshaping scripture to suit my opinions. I want my being to be reshaped by God’s word. Any way, so along comes a guy who twists scripture to reflect his “new thought” education, and now we have the modern prosperity Gospel. I have a cousin who woke up one morning and really wanted a yellow volkswagon beetle, and so she told God that She deserved a yellow volkswagon beetle. 

Those of you that know your bibles, know that there is only one thing that we deserve? What is it?

That’s right. No one deserves anything else but to spend an eternity in punishment for our life spent sinning. That’s what we deserve. 

Could you imagine the audacity it would take to walk up to president trump and tell him you deserve a yellow volkswagon beetle? Or walking up to the queen of England, and demanding the same? Would you ever do that? Would you have walked up to Obama and demanded a car because you deserve it? 

Yet that’s exactly what the prosperity gospel says we should do. Speak it into existence. Claim your truth. Test this nonsense for me, go home and tell God you deserve to be the King of England, and next week, if it happens for one of you let me know. Tell God you deserve to have wings, and next week if you can fly, let me know. Who could have the authority to demand and tell God what to do? 

We can make requests. But not demands. And any way, lets read our scripture. The anti-venom. 

Luke 9:57-62

So there are at least five issues with the prosperity gospel that I can think of. I don’t know if we will get through all five… we will see, I’ll try and be brief. 

Firstly, they see themselves as the direct inheritors of Abrahams covenant. Anyone remember what God promised Abraham? God promised Abraham that He would have a land, offspring more numerous than the stars in the sky. Possession of a land flowing with milk and honey. But that’s not all, there are messianic elements in the promise too. He’s promised that the covenant will be binding and that his descendents would have a God to turn to. That Kings would rise from Abrahams children. We know Daivd ultimately would be king of Israel, and was a descendent of Abraham, and we know that Jesus was a descendent of both Abraham and David. Ultimately he’s the king of kings and Lord of Lords as part of the trinity. This is the greatest part of the promise of Abraham that we would have a God we could approach, and that out of the descendants of Abraham there would come Kings, ultimately King Jesus being the greatest of all. 
When it comes to prophecy there are two things you have to look at. Its sort of like being in the mountains, or specifically mt st helens? St helens in a massive mountain, and it dwarfs even now after its eruption all of the other mountains around it. Everything else is smaller in comparison. There is this one picture I’ve seen where there are two mountains in the photo, one is st helens, in the background, and in the foreground is another smaller mountain. Thousands of feet shorter. It almost looks like a hill next to helens. Prophecy is like this, there is the immediate context – the little mountain, and the larger messianic or future context. Some elements of the prophecy and the covenant were for that moment, and other elements were meant to apply to all generations into the future. Abraham is told HE will inherit the land, and then that in the future his offspring will have kings among their number, most importantly King Jesus. 

the Abrahamic covenant wasn’t primarily about Abraham being wealthy – which is what at its core is taught by the prosperity Gospel. He was promised a land of his own, and inhabitants to populate it, we who are believers in Jesus Christ who were foreknew before the beginning of the world were promised a relationship with God. That covenant, for us isn’t about wealth. Its about Knowing our savior. Having a relationship with the God of the universe! 

Alright, the second reason is that the prosperity Gospel views poorness as a sin. This is risky, because what huge figure in scripture was poor?  Tell me about Jesus Yacht? Tell me about his massive house? Tell me about his 401k. You cant? Me either. This is what we know of Jesus financial state “And Jesus said to him, “Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.” That doesn’t mean that his airplane just didn’t come with a bed. That means he didn’t have a home. 

I was lost in the hospital on Wednesday, and by the way, thank you all for your prayers for my dad! Any way, I ended up in this one waiting room, and the preacher on TBN named John Avanzini said that Jesus had “a nice house,” “a big house,” “Jesus was handling big money,” and he even “wore designer clothes. Yet the bible says “the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.”. The bible never says he had a lot of money. The bible says simply that he didn’t have a place to lay his head, he was an itinerant preacher, and the crowds he drew, out of 5000 people he had 5 loves and 3 fish to spare, so these crowds he drew weren’t the rich. He didn’t have mark zuckerburg in his audience, he just had average joes, living paycheck to paycheck. 

Thirdly they demand people give from improper motives. Have you ever heard of Kenneth and Gloria Copeland? Gloria Copeland wrote in her book in 2012, that God’s Will is Prosperity, “Give $10 and receive $1,000; give $1,000 and receive $100,000”. Jesus taught his disciples to give hoping for nothing in return. Gloria Copeland asks her prosperity gospel disciples to give expecting God to give 100 times what you put out there. Then those folks have the gall to call it the law of compensation. Their goal in giving is to get more money back. They want to accumulate more and more and more. You know what Charles spurgeon wrote? He said “I believe that it is anti-Christian and unholy for any Christian to live with the object of accumulating wealth. You will say, “Are we not to strive all we can to get all the money we can?” You may do so. I cannot doubt but what, in so doing, you may do service to the cause of God. But what I said was that to live with the object of accumulating wealth is anti-Christian.  We are to give freely, as Christ has given freely to us. Were to help those in our midst, were to do a lot of things, but the object of our life, the goal of our life should never be something so crass as the mere accumulation of wealth. If God has blessed you with money, great! Praise the Lord! But that should never be the sum total of our life. A puritan wrote “Self is the only oil that makes the chariot-wheels of the hypocrite move in all religious concerns.” Thomas Brooks, in other words if the only reason you’re giving is for yourself, than its better for you not to give. God’s not going to bless that. 

Fourthly, they believe Faith is a thing that comes out of man, that forces God to work. As though God has been placed in thumb screws, and our every act of faith forces more prosperity out of God for you. What a horrible picture that is directly antagonistic towards God! any theology that views faith chiefly as a means to material gain rather than justification before God must be judged inadequate at best and heresy at worst. 

Fifthly and I’ll just go ahead and quote Creflo Dollar, “When we pray, believing that we have already received what we are praying, God has no choice but to make our prayers come to pass. 

They believe that somehow Prayer and Faith can FORCE God to give them what they want. Does that sound like any God you know? Week and powerless forced by mans puny will to do our bidding when we want how we want where we want? It’s a wonder to me that prosperity Gospel hasn’t died out because of this very point. How many of you have prayed earnestly for something, for someone, for God to move in a certain way and have absolutely nothing happen? All of us. I remember a story my dad tells, about a dear friend of the family. She was a principle of a school that I went to for a few years, she was a friend of my parents, and their kids were my friends. Any way, one day she announces she has been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. It’s a death sentence. Its spread. They are going to do what they can, and remove organs, and try to keep her going and get her through it. We all gathered together, and we would regularly pray for her that God would heal her. Wouldn’t you know it, she passed away about a year or so after her diagnosis. Left three kids behind, two were 12 or less. Prosperity Gospel would say that we didn’t have enough faith, or that she didn’t or that her husband didn’t. God is never under obligation to answer our prayers. And yet he always answers our prayers, sometimes he says yes, sometimes no, and sometimes wait. One way or the other we get an answer. When you’re friends mom is dying, no is not the answer you want to hear. But for Mrs. Taylor it wast the best way our prayers could have been answered. Shes in glory! No was the best way, the best news, the best result for Her was to be in the presence of her savior, a place where her pancrease is no longer betraying her body, a place where shes no longer in pain, a place in glory with Jesus. 

Secondly I want you to notice vs 57 – “as they were going along the road. Where is Jesus Going? He’s on his way to Jerusalem. He’s heading for the cross. Is that comfortable, oh oh, what about healthy? IS the Cross healthy? Is that going to make him any kind of money, or make him healthier or more comfortable on the cross? certainly not.

Luke 9:23 says “Then Jesus said to all of them, “If anyone would come after Me, he must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow Me.” 

In bible times, this was shocking and offensive. It would have had the same amount of shock as if a person took a loaded gun, a gun that you knew for a  fact was loaded, and pressed it to the back of their throat, and then commanded you to do likewise daily. The cross was offensive. It was reserved for the most vile criminals. It was a symbol of scorn, and of the enemies of society. 

Does that sound prosperous to you? How much money does that sound like its going to make someone? Is it comfortable? Is it going to make you healthy? 

What matters is not this life, but the one to come. A puritan, the same one from earlier wrote “For a close, remember this, that your life is short, your duties many, your assistance great, and your reward sure; therefore faint not, hold on and hold up, in ways of well-doing, and heaven shall make amends for all.”  Thomas Brooks, 

Life is so short, and fragile, and there is so much to do. Many of us have too many irons in the fire, so much stress, and aggravation, and so many things that consume our time, but faint not, don’t grow weary, because heaven will be so wonderful you wont care about how hard this life was. 

But that starts with some choices. 

David Platt wrote out these questions, and I thought them worth repeating. He asks: 
1. Are you going to choose comfort or are you going to choose The Cross? You can’t normally have both. 2. Are you going to settle for maintenance, or are you going to sacrifice for the mission? 3. Will your life be marked by an indecisive mind or an undivided heart? I hope my life reflects that I have chose the cross, sacrificed for mission, and an undivided heart after the Lord. 

I reject the false prosperity gospel, and the selfishness inherent to it. I reject any philosophy that takes seeks to reshape God’s word to fit. I want God’s word only, and always. As the reformers said, sola scriptura, sola fide, sola gratia, sola Christus and solo deo Gloria. In English that is By scripture alone, by faith alone, by grace alone, through Christ alone, for the glory of God alone. 

All of that starts with the real and true gospel of scripture. 

Gospel. 
