The people group we are going to pray for today are the Ansari of India. According to a legend, the Ansari were inhabitants of Medina, and Ansari was the title given to those who gave shelter to and helped the prophet Mohammad in his first religious war against Mecca. In recent years, religious fervor has been stirred up among them and made them aware of the principles of Islam. Their literacy rate is low and girls discontinue their studies due to social pressures. There are more than 10 million of them, and to our knowledge, not a single believer in Jesus Christ or missionary engaging them today. 

Pray for God to send workers into this community. For people to tell them about the Gospel, for people to teach them to read. 

Were going to be in Luke chapter 4 today, Luke 4. While you’re turning there, I want to talk about our read through the bible in a year. Have you guys been keeping up with it? I know some of you are, and I know that for some of you this is the first time you’ve ever read it straight through cover to cover. Is it working well for you guys? Hows the pace? I liked preaching through the bible like this, but I liked going through book by book as well. If we do this again next year, I may plan on switching it up a few times, I’ll preach along with our reading, and then maybe we will stop and preach through a book, and then back to following the reading plan. 

Any way, we still have a few months to think about that. Were going to be in Luke 4 today, and where we are at, Jesus is being tempted by the devil in the desert. 

Can any of you relate to having spent some time in the desert? Been through a point in life where it felt like Elijah waiting by the brook? You’ll remember God made him sit there until the brook had completely dried up. It wasn’t even a little muddy, scripture says completely dried up. No word from God, no rain, just avian uber eats. Its like a taxi service for your food. I’m sure that Elijah was questioning himself, and questioning God, and wondering where God was, and why God was being so silent after such a clear leading. Ever been in that spot? 

That’s where we find Jesus this morning. He has been in the desert for a while, he’s fasting, and at a point where Satan thinks Jesus must be week, and that is when he chooses to attack Jesus. Lets read. 

Luke 4:1-13

It strikes me that our enemy waits until Jesus is at his weakest to strike. For Jesus that was after he had been fasting for 40 days. Someone read vs 2 again. We are not Jesus, and so we may or may not be attacked in the same ways with the same methods, but what we can expect is the attacks to come at us when we are at our weakest. For some of us that is while we are getting ready for something. The stress and chaos of preparing for a trip or event is wearying. I know Godly people that when they are faced with a transition time they will encounter more attack, and more stress, and more aggravation and more effort by our enemy to make us sin than they will at any other time. 

Its at that point that the enemy whispers in our ears, no one will know. No one will be hurt. Just do it. 

For others its while we are doing a thing. You guys helped me to follow the Lord to Haiti a number of years ago. There were a half dozen or so of us working with maybe 30 haitians to build a school, and secure help from the UN to build and guard a well. In any event it was the heat of summer, and over 100f in the shade. We would get up really early, we would start work around day break, and we would haul rocks by hand from the big rock pile, to the people that were forming these rocks into walls. Their precision was amazing. They would look at the rock and know just how to strike it for it to break in the perfect way for the piece of the wall they were working on. Any way, I got talking to this one guy, I won’t say who, but he opened up that the time he struggled most was after a long day working in the heat, he would get home, and think to himself, I’ve worked hard today, I deserve this little indulgence. The problem was back home, one beer would turn into a six pack, and before you knew it he hadn’t just had a little drink, he had sinned by becoming drunk. I think this is a weak point for americans sort of in general. Especially in some of the up coming generations, they feel like they can indulge in something, because their happiness is important, but what is the end result of that? Sin. Disobedience to God. Violating God’s precepts. Sin’s payment was a high cost for Christ. 

Thirdly when we return from a thing – missions trips, vacations, and so forth. I think sometimes when we get home from a vacation, we need a vacation just to recover from vacation. The approach here is similar – you worked hard, you played hard, you deserve a little (insert pet sin here)! No one knows, no one has to know, no one will be hurt. 

But it hurts Christ. The words of the hymn are “it was my sin that held him there, until it was accomplished. Every sin we have ever committed, every sin we are committing, and every sin we will commit has a share in holding Christ to the cross. Has a share in the beating Christ took with that cat of 9 tails. Has a share in the humiliation Christ experienced from the moment of his birth until the moment of his death. 

It was MY sin – say it – it was MY sin that held him there. 

What should our response be to that? I think we should grieve our sin. I think we should grieve the price Christ paid for it. I think we should fight our inclination towards it. We should identify when we are attacked most, and plan counter measures. 

If you know you’re going to be attacked during the transitionary time in preparing to go somewhere, think ahead before hand, and KNOW where that attack is going to come from, and circumvent it. 

I had a professor at Trinity say once in chapel, that if you’re problem is internet porn, and your tempted when you’re alone with your computer, get rid of your computer, and cling to your family. 

For the true believer in Jesus Christ, the response to our sin, should be a drive to help us be more holy. God commands us to be Holy as he is Holy. But we need God’s help for that don’t we. 
 
So we looked at some of the timings of our enemys attacks, lets look at christs approach to these same attacks. I need three people to read for me. Someone read for me vs 4, someone else vs 8, and a third person vs 12. Now I need three more people to read three more verses. First is Deuteronomy 8:3, second is Dt 6:16, and third and finally, I need someone to read dt 6:13

Notice a theme? Every single time, while Jesus is at his weakest, when the enemy tempts him, he responds with scripture. Scripture has guidance on every single issue we are going to face as part of the human condition. It either gives you a direct answer – Yes that is good, or NO that’s a sin. Or it gives you an outline of principles to work within. I’ve been spending time with some of the teenagers lately, and relationships are a big deal right now. Should I date this person, should I not. Some of those answers are straight forward. If you’re a boy, and the other person is also a boy, scripture says no! If you’re a girl and the other person is a girl, then scripture is very clear and still says no. So that’s quite clear, but there are times when relationship issues aren’t as clear. Should I marry this person or not? Scripture doesn’t have direct answers for that. It gives you principles to work within. Does the man love the Lord? Is he going to lead your home from a biblical perspective? Is he going to provide for and protect his family? And so forth. The answer at the end may be no, but it may be yes. 

But you won’t know the answer to that without knowing what the scriptures say. I heard a preacher the other day, Steven davey say that life is like a puzzle, and the word of God is the puzzle box top. Any of you like doing puzzles? I sometimes like to take a minute and work on a puzzle. I forget where I was, but some jerk had brought a puzzle that was double sided. It had two puzzles with very similar colors, and images, one on one side of each puzzle piece, and the other on the backside. It was a challenging puzzle, and tons of time was spent trying to figure it out without the box top. Finally someone brought it out and then after that the puzzle was still hard. It took us hours. But we never would have figured it out without that box top. 

Life is a lot like that. All these pieces, trying to put things together as best as we can, and sometimes some puzzle pieces work where we think they should be, and sometimes they don’t. But it’s a much easier process if we just are willing to look at the box top. 

The word of God is our box top. It is a love letter, but also an instruction book for life. 

Martin Luther wrote “I have made a covenant with God that he send me neither visions, nor dreams nor even angels I am satisfied with the gift of the Holy Scriptures which gives me abundant instruction in all that I need to know for this life, and for that which is to come.” 

He loved to bring the word of God to people that needed to hear it. We are people that need to hear it. Another person speaking of American culture today said that the church is like a bad photograph. Overexposed and underdeveloped. We in our culture have Christian this and Christian that, we are exposed to 128 character sections of scripture every time we drive, all over social media, on television and so forth. But despite that level of exposure we remain under developed because we don’t read the full council of the word of God. 

Think of it in terms of cooking. I made some really yummy bread a while back. It was spicy three cheese bread. It had mozerella, coby jack, and a third kind of cheese. The dough was covered in butter and crushed red pepper, red peppers was folded into the dough, and the dough was wrapped around the cheese, and when it was baked it became this kinda light, bread, full of air pockets, and loaded down with cheese in every slice. 

Those of you that make bread know that you have to do a lot of mixing. This particular loaf of bread took me a full day to make. What if I had only mixed it a little bit on Sunday, and then left it sit until next Sunday, and then mixed it a little bit again. What kind of bread do you think I would end up with?

What kind of Christian do you think such a life style would create? 

Scripture talks about its utility to the believer. Bob Clark loved to quote this one: Scripture is sharper than any two edged sword able to separate bone from marrow – scripture is a scalpel. Heb 4:12 

James 1 the bible is like a mirror, and when you look in the mirror you get a clear picture of who you are and where you are according to scripture. It illuminates our deep failures, and deep need for God. 

Scripture is like a window, we can see his glory, and love for us, a God who met us in our depravity, and made us a part of the family of God. 

Scripture is like a time machine – it takes us through the most pivotal points in human history and shows us the mistakes and victories of the past, and in revelation it shows us the things that are to come. We can see the glories of heaven, and the mistakes that damned us to hell all in one book, with the kind compassionate, loving act of our God who came down and met us, and loved us, and helped us, and healed us, and for all of that it was our sin that held him there, on that old rugged cross, until it was accomplished. His dying breath brought us life. 

Why should we gain from his reward, I cannot give an answer, but this I know with all my heart, his wounds have paid my ransom. 

The bible is like a body guard – ps 119:11 treasure it in your heart and it will keep you from sin. 

2 tim 3:16 scripture teaches, and reproofs, and corrects and rebukes us, trainings us for all righteousness. 

Scripture is so vitally important to the believer in Jesus Christ. Scripture is like clothing. Titus 2:10 – titus is commanded to wear the word of God and the truth of God revelead in scriptures. 

Let me ask you this, how many of you went outside this week without being properly dressed? But how many of you went outside this week without being properly dressed in the word of God for the day? 

Scripture is so important in the life of the believer. Its possible that if you aren’t reading your bible, that if you have no desire to read your bible, its possible, maybe probably that you have not yet come to a point in your spiritual life where you’ve become a believer in Jesus Christ. It’s a trap so many folks fall into. They think just because they go to church, or listen to some preacher preach that they are good enough with God. 

That’s a good step. But that’s not good enough. It all starts with a relationship with God. 

