Malachi 3
Introduction
Our passage today is a companion passage to one we read about a half year ago or so. Remember when we were studying Nehemiah, some of the things we talked about then are relevant today. Many scholars say this book was written about the same time as the book of Nehemiah. Remember what happened in Nehemiah? The temple had just been rebuilt, but the walls were a shambles and the people that lived there weren’t safe, so God orchestrated for a neighboring kingdom to pay for Jerusalem to have her walls rebuilt. There was a lot of things that were going on, discouragements, set backs, regime changes resulting in conflicting orders. At one point they were laying stone with one hand, and holding their sword in the other, shield strapped to their backs. But God provided for them. Each and every day he gave them what they needed to get through to the next. It took years but they finally finished the wall, and decided to have a time of rededication. Gods presence seems to have covered the land. People were reading numbers, and Leviticus and breaking out in tears because of their love for the Lord, and his word, and his holiness. We read Leviticus earlier in the year, someone came up to me and said that Leviticus made them want to cry too. But not because of that!   Leviticus is sometimes hard for us to read, because its kind of a distant system that we don’t have a lot of connection to, but it shows us the holiness of God! It shows us how far short we fall of Gods perfect standard, and so when they read it, they wept in knowing their short comings, and that God had chosen them, and had protected and provided for them even though they fell so far short. It was a time of great revival! Several days of singing and worshipping God, and reading his word publicly. Wouldn’t that be a wonderful thing to be a part of? It reminds me of when we used to take the kids to acquire the fire. Or the adults to promise keepers. Where those events perfect? Nope. But what I loved is that they created a platform where kids (and adults) were excited about praising, worshipping and learning about God. In that way they were kind of like what happened in Jerusalem under Nehemiah. 

At some point though you have to ask yourself, was it true or false? 

I read a statistic by an organization that followed up on things for the billy graham crusades that on average half of those who prayed to accept Christ at a BG Crusade, a year later weren’t in church, weren’t reading their bible, weren’t living for the Lord. If they had been smoking or alcoholics before were alcoholics and smokers after the year. If they were using recreational drugs before a year out they still were. Basically from any observable metric half of everyone that went forward looking like the world, acting like the world, smelling like the world, still looked and smelled and acted like the world a year later. The same was true five years later, and ten. A portion of them ended up in cults and false relgions. A portion came to describe themselves as atheist. A portion of them over the next ten years had a second conversion experience that they took seriously, and they began to live for the Lord. This phenomenon has been true of every major evangelistic stadium type even that has ever taken place. Some come forward at the prompting of God, some just had pizza the night before or were experiencing the emotion of the moment. It happens. 

So turn with me to the book of malachi chapter 3. It strikes me that these are the last recorded words of God before a period of 400 years of silence, and they came right on the heels of this major revival experience that took place in Jerusalem. Of the 60 or so verses in the whole book, all but a few are God speaking in the first person to his people. Based on that what kind of words would you expect from God? Maybe you’d expect him to say “I’m so glad to see you guys finally coming around, you’re getting better, just keep pushing hard”… nope. His last words were remember Moses law, and if you forget it, I’ll send prophets like Elijah to come preach to you, and if you keep up your wicked ways I’m going to curse the land and destroy you. 

Chapter one two and three outlines the reasons for God’s anger. Breaking God’s law, improper worship of God, marrying foreign women that worship false God(s), and for not tithing. 

Lets read malachi 3:1-12

Those are some pretty strong words I think. He will refine them like gold or silver. He sticks them in the fire, heats them up and scrapes them. He says he will purify them like a fullers soap. Anyone know what that second one means? Fullers soap? Literally translated here from the Hebrew it says “one who treads cloth with alkali”. That was how they used to wash material, and clothing. They would take alkali, and nitre and make a soap, and then apply it to water, and tread on the material they were washing. They would scrape it against it self, and other materials also being washed, and in so doing between the ancient formulation of soap, the water, and the scrubbing action of the feet of the fuller, the clothing would eventually be clean. 

I’ve actually had clothing cleaned in this way. I spent some time in Haiti, and we were building a school. We could only work a few hours a day because of the heat. It was scorchingly unrelentingly hot. We would be soaked through our clothing in a couple hours, covered in dirt, and exhausted. This necessarily took its toll on our clothes. Everything we took with us was stained the orange color of their dirt. I took old things, that were already worn, or stained beyond our ability to clean here in the states. Figured I would toss them out when I returned. Any way, the last day we were there when I came back from the school and church we were working on, my clothes were gone. I was surprised. I wanted to shower, and change into clean clothes, but couldn’t. Turns out the wife of the man we were staying with had taken them down to the river, and spent the day treading on them, scrubbing them against other clothing, rocks, and soap that she had made. When the clothes came back that night they were clean, and brightly colored. They looked new! Even a shirt that was partly covered in paint had all of the paint scrubbed off it so that it was like new. 

The fullers soap leaves everything better than when it was found. Isn’t that a laudable goal? To be purified by God for his purposes? A pastor in Orlando wrote “before God uses a man greatly, he must first break him greatly. 

In the context of what we’ve read today, God must first heat us and scrape us, he must first trod us underfoot, cause us to be pressed against others, have the outer layer of cloth scratched away by rocks in the presence of harsh chemicals. But God has a purpose in doing this, he is preparing us for a ministry down the road, preparing us for a specific time and place down the road where he plans to allow us to help with his plan. 

One of the greatest preachers of the last few centuries Charles Spurgeon wrote “I thank my God for every storm that has wrecked me upon The Rock, Christ Jesus”. God breaks us. He presses us, he cleans us, he sends us through the fire, but all for GOOD reasons. To make us holy, like he is holy. To make us fit for service to the king. Trials in life are a bit like boot camp. A number of you have been through that. You end up being pushed beyond what you think you are capable of enduring, taught things that may well one day save your life, all for the benefit of the country, so that you could be that noble shield that stands between the helpless and those who seek to destroy them. 

God is purifying us so that we can be living examples of Christ to others in this lost and dying world. So we can be a bulwark that keeps the lost and dying world around us from marching into an eternity in Hell. In so doing, we can point our meager lights to Christ, and make much of him. God doesn’t need us for this, but he chooses to allow us to participate in his purposes for the world. 

If it were possible for us to live in the way God demands, God wouldn’t need to subject us to the fullers soap, or the refiners fire. In Adam and Eve choosing to sin all the way back in the garden, and in the way you and I live our lives every day we choose to be subjected to these things. The grossness of our sin demands holiness to work in us, to purify us. So lets briefly look at those handful of things that God is addressing here in malachi. First was violating the Law; all the other issues that moved God to wrath were under this. Failing to worship properly, Failing in marriage, and failing to tithe properly were all deviations from the Law that God gave moses to give to the people. 

Secondly, failing to worship properly. They had very precise instructions from God on how to handle his worship, and sacrifices to him. Pure, clean, first, unblemished. Yet what were they bringing? According to chapter two, they were stealing, and cheating to take others livestock. Then giving that to God. They were giving blemished, sick, and lame livestock as their sacrifice. That strikes me too. When a sheep is fully white, that is a dominate genetic trait. If you breed a white sheep, to a sheep that isn’t white, you’ll most likely get a fully white sheep. If you breed them a second time to a sheep that isn’t white, you’ll get some faint spotting. It takes a third breeding to get a sheep that has any kind of significant color. So in order to have sheep that had these coloration blemishes you had to be trying. Now sheep are prone to being lame, or sick, or death. Its pretty inexcusable to send those as your offering to God. 

In chapter one, God mentions a custom of the time, that if you were going to go visit a dignitary, or mayor, or king you would take that king a gift. God points out that if they gave that king the same kind of gifts they were giving him – as the King of Kings, Lord of Lords and God who holds their molecules together, the earthly king would be offended, and react poorly, but God continued in his steadfast love despite the offenses his people were perpetrating against him. They were giving God their leftovers. If it wouldn’t sell, or was going to die any way, send that sick one over, and let god have that. I want to keep the good ones for me. I am whats most important here was the message they sent with their sacrifices. Their tithes too.  They were to send their first fruits. With peppers, the first crop of the year, the fruit tended to be bigger and better looking. It was too soon for many of the garden pests to have had sufficient numbers to attack the garden yet. God was asking for us to give him a small percent of our best. Its easier and less work to find unblemished peppers at the start of the season. By the end of the season, the fruit is smaller, frequently it would have been bitten by these bugs that left scars on the fruit. It would have taken a LOT more fruit, and a LOT more work to find unblemished fruit at the end of the season. So when they didn’t have enough, they would give what they wouldn’t eat. Small, spoiled, scarred, messed up, stinky, half bug eaten fruits, to God. 

In so doing it was a way of expressing their disbelief in God. God says he wants my first fruits, but I’ll just give what I’ve got left over, and he won’t know the difference, or he won’t care, or he doesn’t exist and it doesn’t matter. 

Today I believe we give to God in several ways. With our time, and many of you do just that. Each of you have your own areas of service. From helping  with the kids, or the music or the sound or the food pantry or any of the ways in which we minister to this community. What does giving your leftovers look like when it comes to giving of your time? 

What about your money? Maybe it looks like having bought a new watch, and then not being able to afford to give money to God. Maybe it means having bought a new bigger tv, and then not being able to afford to give to God. Maybe it looks like going out for dinner, because you’re too busy to cook a few nights a week, and then you’re unable to give to God. Its an EASY trap to fall into, and hard to get out of. 

So many of you give so sacrificially, I don’t want to hit this point too hard and make your sacrifice seem cheap. Its noticed, its appreciated. Its beneficial and loved. 

Finally is the ways in which they had twisted marriage. This is highly topical right now. Looking around outside the walls of the church, Gods intent for marriage is being twisted in every conceivable way. In the days this was penned, people were divorcing their wife from Jerusalem, for no other reason than a pretty girl came along from some forgeign city. Maybe it felt dangerous, and secret. Maybe like the love between romeo and Juliet. But they were marrying and trying to marry people that God had commanded them not to. This compounded some of the earlier problems. Marry a girl that worships baal – remember how perverse baal worship was? Temple prostitutes, and so forth – I have no idea what a temple prostitute charged, but I am certain they weren’t free. Now you have two sets of competing priorities, two sets of significant financial drain. If they were worshiping baal for more reasons than the sex, and actually believed in the existence of baal, now there is a second (air quotes) deity that must be appeased. Life is so much more complicated when we live in disobedience to God. Gods law was not only to show us what perfect holiness looks like, but in practice, being obedient to them made our lives easier, protected us, benefited us, and they all bring glory to God. 

So they ended up going into the fullers soap. Into the refiners fire. Because God loves them too much to allow them to continue living in sin. 

He does the same to us today. Scripture says God chastises those he loves. 

But it all starts with a relationship with him. 

Gospel



