Manatee Creek Sheep

2025 Update

Manatee Creek seep were created in an effort to better serve the needs of the florida sheep market. As such two lines were created, one bred together the hardiest sheep that we could find, and the other bred the biggest and fastest growing sheep together. Then the two lines were carefully crossed selecting the offspring for the following traits (in no particular order): general hardiness, parasite resistance, heat resistance, manageability, year around lambing, Excellent mothering, growthiness, hair, and if possible, milkiness and fat tails. 

Hardiness
We want the breed to be low maintenance. We don’t want sheep that will require extra work. With the exception of predator attacks, we have a two strike rule. If we have to treat them twice for the same thing, they are removed from the program. We don’t cull for a first offense, because things like hurricanes and record heat or cold can affect the immune system, and what might be an issue after surviving 6 feet of flood waters during a hurricane, might never be an issue again. 

Parasite Resistance
This is one of the biggest financial issues related to raising sheep in Florida. Some producers lose sheep, and certainly the vast majority of producers lose valuable time and money treating parasites with increasingly ineffective anthelmintics. To address this issue we brought in any sheep we could find regardless of breed that had demonstrated parasite resistance to any degree. This meant bringing home florida native (cracker) sheep, gulf coast native sheep, and more than 20 breeds that had at least a little resistance or excellent resilience. One of the notable rams that we used extensively was a 2022 UF ram test top performing Katahdin from OAV farm, AND two of his sisters.  

Heat Resistance
Sheep that don’t handle the heat well pant more, and burn more calories during stressfull times, and are less likely to be able to reproduce. Heat can make some males sterile. Any sheep that seemed particularly affected by heat was culled. 

Manageability
This is a trait of secondary importance. But if all other things were equal, we would choose the more docile offspring to add to the flock. One ram that added greatly in this area was a massive purebred southdown we called sampson. His calmness was highly heritable. The calmer the breed, the easier they are to take care of when something is needed. We applied this criteria to both rams and ewes. We refused to keep a dangerous ram regardless of how nice his build conformation, or whatever else he brought to the table. 

Year-Round Lambing
Most of the ewes used in this project would cycle every 14-17 days. Those that were annual cyclers were bred to those that would cycle any time, and the offspring were placed with a ram starting at about six months to encourage an out of season mating. If they turned out to be seasonal breeders, we would cull, and place the culled ewes lamb in with a ram 24/7 starting at about six months. We repeated until successful. Additionally, we selected for twins. If an ewe gave birth to fewer by her second lambing season she was culled. We didn’t penalize an ewe for triplet or quads as long as the ewe could handle raising them herself. Lambs should be vigorous, and ewes should be able to care for the lambs regardless of whether the weather is hot, or cold, or windy, or rainy, or any combination of the above. 

Excellent Mothering
Any ewe who even in her first year rejected her lambs, or couldn’t provide enough milk to feed the number she carried to term was culled. Any ewe who rejected her lambs when nothing was wrong with them, was culled. 

Growthiness
We feed an 18% protein feed, and would measure weights at birth, 30, 60, and 90 days. Then again annually until they are three. We would then keep the top 60% of performers, and cull the slower growers. In addition several rams were brought in from the UF ram test that were top performers for both growth and parasite resistance. 

Hair and No Horns. 
We opted to end up with a hornless hair animal because we didn’t want to feed horns, or wool. They say it takes on average 300lbs of feed to produce a pound of wool. I’d much rather that 300 lbs go to meat and in support of the immune system than growing wool or horns. 

Milkiness 
I want sheep that can feed as many lambs as they have. To improve milkiness we brought in some sheep with east Friesian and awassi genetics. 

Fat Tails
To suit the market, and to improve meat production, we are selecting for fat tails. Though this is not a primary concern. To improve tail size on the carcass we brought in Awassi, and Karakul genetics.

The breeds we intentionally brought in are as follows (alphabetic order): American Black Belly, Awassi, Babydoll, Barbados Black Belly, Black Headed Dorper, Cotswald, Cracker, East Friesan, Gulf Coast Native, Hampshire, Jacob, Karakul, Katahdin, Southdown, St Augustine, St Croix, Suffolk, Texel, Tunis, White Dorper, and Wiltshire Horn. 

The breeds we found with parasite resistances were: American Black Belly, Awassi, Babydoll, Barbados Black Belly, Cotswald, Cracker, Gulf Coast Native, Jacob, Karakul, Katahdin, Southdown, St Augustine, St Croix, and Tunis. 

The sheep we brought in to improve carcass: Hampshire, Suffolk, Katahdin, Southdown (he was 300+ pounds), Karakul, White and Black Dorper, St Augustine, Cotswald, Texel, Tunis, Wiltshire Horn. 

The sheep we brought in for fat tails: Karakul, Awassi, and a Tunis x Cotswald with a particularly large tail. 
Milkiness was East Friesian and Awassi. 

Hair sheep involved in the breed are: Katahdin, St Augustine, St Croix, American Black Belly, Barbados Black belly, the two Dorper Breeds, and Wiltshire Horn. 

Wool sheep breeds: Awassi, Babydoll, Cotswald, Cracker, East Friesian, Gulf Coast Native, Hampshire, Jacob, Karakul, Southdown, Suffolk, Texel, Tunis. 


The Manatee Creek breed of sheep was created by Ken Baker who had been raising sheep for ten years before he decided to embark on his journey to make a breed of sheep that was perfect for him. The foundation flock consisted of a ¾ St Augustine ¼ Katahdin Ram. A florida state fair prize winning Katahdin ewe, a Barbados Black Belly ewe, a Dorper ewe, a ½ Jacob ½ babydoll ewe, a ½ gulf coast ½ Icelandic ewe, a ½ Suffolk ½ Hampshire,  a ½ awassi ½ dorper ewe and a ½ east Friesian 1/2 dorper.

Each breed was chosen for a purpose. Gulf Coast, Icelandic, Katahdin, BBB, and St Augustine (which has St Croix in its makeup) for their parasite resistance, and resistance to common sheep illnesses (Icelandic). Gulf Coast was also chosen for Ken’s personal family connection to the breed. His ancestors came to florida on a land grant form the King of Spain, and along side other livestock and animals, kept the sheep that later became known as Gulf Coast in some areas, and Crackers in Florida. Katahdin, BBB, St Augustine, and Dorper were chosen to help pull the breed away from wool, and towards hair sheep. The Babydoll x Jacob was especially friendly, and easy to handle. She was added to balance out the deer like qualities some of the hair sheep possess (BBB, St Croix, etc). The Awassi had the benefit of being well suited for hot climates. The katahdin, BBB, and St. Croix helped with ensuring feet that could hold up to the tropical environment of florida, while the Icelandic helped ensure the breed would be able to hold up in colder climates as well. 

The initial crosses were doing well, but several of the ewes were unable to produce enough milk to support triplets (which were common). So a local breeder of Dorpers selected for milk production was located and their genetics added into the mix. Around the same time, Ken heard of an excellent local source of dorper x awassi sheep and a farm in NC that produced east Friesian x dorper lambs – both crosses possessed exceptional muscling and exceptional milk production. Several examples of each were purchased and genetics added into the flock. 

Hampshire and Suffolk were added for size and growth rates. 

Goals
The Ideal Manatee Creek Sheep would be large framed, well muscled, able to thrive on poor quality grass, excellent mothers, quick to gain weight, that consistently have and raise at least twins to weaning. All should have exceptional parasite resistance, heat tolerance, tolerance to wet environments, and hardy enough to be able to thrive in Florida’s unique environment. 

Methodology. 

With 8 foundation sheep, the goal was to produce two sheep that each represented 4 of the 8 foundation ewes. So that together each sheep represented the 8 foundation ewes, and 14 total breeds at the tested best percentages to take advantage of heterosis and breed complementarity. Both of these two initial sheep had a little more hair sheep genetics than wool genetics. Then their offspring were considered to be the F1 generation. The best F1 pairs were kept to produce multiple families of F1 stock. 

Ken selected for hair, growth rate in the kept rams, for ewes that came into season year around, were excellent mothers, produced an abundance of milk, and that raised at least twins or better triplets to weaning consistently. 

Any sheep exhibiting any issues with milk production, bad mothers, intolerance to heat, or that needed to be wormed, or that had poor muscling, or with non-shedding wooly coats were culled. The slowest gaining 20% of each new F generation were culled. Test breeding was done between the Ram and his daughters, grand daughters, and great grand daughters to check for underlying genetic issues that may have been present. Any issues that turned up were culled. All of these back crosses were culled after having been grown out, and bred back to their original sire. Any sheep whose tail must be docked was culled. 

Preamble to Breed Standard. 

There shall only ever be one standard for the breed. Even when other countries import Manatee Creek Sheep, they shall abide by the standard as it is written. Changes may be made by Ken, or in his absence the breed association board by simple majority vote. Ken for the duration of his life or interest, has final say on any changes. 
