If you’ve brought your bibles and I hope you have, I want you to open with me to mark 12:1-2
I heard a story this week about a friends missions trip in the himilayas,. 

half of all children die before 8. 

What would that be like as a parent, for us the worst thing we can imagine is losing a child. For the people of these villages, its an expectation. How heart breaking. 

But that isn’t even the worst. Woman 14 kids, 12 died. The most common causes of death are tied to the basic lack of medical care. One 6 of her 12 children died of infections because of cuts or scrapes or puncture wounds that got infected.  The other 6 died because of diarrhea. Ultimately she sold one in sexual slavery, because the sex predators convinced the woman to sell him her little girl so at least she would have access to medical care. She was sold at 12. Imagine dads what that would be like to be in a position where it feels safer for your daughter, your little girl to be raped every day For someone elses gain. 

Its heart breaking. My friend said as he walked around the villages it wasn’t uncommon to see children half naked chained to trees. Some of the Children that looked like they had been attached to a seal a meal, you know what I mean? Those vaccum sealers that pull anything extra out? Skin stretched over bones. He said it was one of the most heart breaking things he’s ever seen. The most heartbreaking thing he had ever seen happened on the same trip. The local IMB missionaries wanted him to have a real grasp of what the conditions were like so they took my friend into a city, and showed him a brothel. They didn’t stay long. But he started weeping in this part of the story because he looked over, and saw a little girl maybe 10 or 12. Who started giving him bedroom eyes because she assumed he was there to rape her, to use her like all the men she’s known in her brief life have used her. My friend has five children, his adopted little girl was about the same age as the little girl in the brothel. How heart breaking would that be dads? 

He saw an adult male whose eye was dangling out of the socket, rotting, infected, who would likely die because of the infection, lost, bound for hell. He saw a little 6year old, arm rotting off, infected, likely going to die, and spend an eternity in hell. 

He saw a four year old boy with cerebral palsy chained to a barn wall exposed to the elements because his town had told his parents that this beautiful child was a curse upon their home. so after four years, they decided to leave him outside, exposed to the elements, to die, alone, chained to a wall, bound for an eternity in hell. 

Its easy to think about these things in the comforts of north America, but imagine would it would be like to be face to face with the starving children, chained cerebral palsy kids, little girls being abused like this. It’s a much different reality to be a pastor or missionary on the ground in the face of this lack of justice. In the face of the suffering, and pain. 

9 million people are in the region, most are bhudist. Around 100 are believers in Jesus Christ. 

Who will pray for the himilayas for us this morning? 

Its hard as a pastor, and as a missionary, you guys know I’ve been both at various points, hard to know where to start in a situation like that. Do you start with the very real needs of medicine? do you start with the gospel? It’s a difficult place to be in. The people of the himilayas are hardened to a lot of this, numb. Perhaps like the people in our passage today, mark 12 starting in vs 1. 

I like how Jesus addresses both in our passage today. 

Read mark 12:1-2
So I have this picture in my mind, dottie calls them videos, but I have this picture in my mind of the four friends, and the paralytic. Their friend was hurting, and they heard about a man that could help. They were so sure he could help that they got their friend onto a litter and carried him to the place where Jesus was preaching. Jesus, many people think was preaching in the home of peter. Could have been peters parents, could have been peters mother in law, could have been peters home. Either way, whomever it was is wealthy based on the tile roofs. I actually learned a lot about ancient tile roofs this week. Apparently many modern tile roofs are based on the same system. It was a good system.

So the friends approach the place where jesus is preaching, and they try to get close. The crowd is so big and thick. Imagine the callousness, you try to get near Jesus with your crippled friend. Our sound man and technology consultant, sometimes refers to himself as handi-crippled. SO they approached the house, and I envision them tapping on peoples shoulders, please, let us through, my friend is crippled, and the people in the crowd give them an annoyed look, and go back to watching Jesus preach.  

Discouraged they regroup. What do we do? When one of them says, lets just take the roof off. 

Look with me at vs 4 someone read that loudly for me. 

In the Greek where it says they took off the roof, mark writes “they unroofed the roof”. This was a major project. 

Imagine what it would have been like for Jesus? You think crying babies are a distraction? Imagine the roof being torn off! Bits of dust and debris, maybe a broken tile, falling around you while you’re preaching. You notice it doesn’t say Jesus missed a beat? You know what else isn’t mentioned? Peter or his family being upset by their house being ruined. I tend to think it was his family. I think otherwise it would have been a story that found its way into Peters writings. Regardless. Neither peter, nor his family, nor anyone is recorded as having complained. 

There are three things I want you to see, maybe four. 
Firstly, Jesus has the authority to read our hearts. Read vs 6-7. He saw the peoples hearts, he knew what they were thinking. He knew that they were in their hearts condemining him for what amounted to blasphemy. Who but God can forgive sins they said in their hearts. God sees your heart too. He knows your heart, he hears your heart. Every deep and dark closet. Every secret sin. Every embarrassing thing we’ve ever done, he was there, and saw what we did, and read our hearts, he knew what we were thinking. Not one of us escapes his gaze. Jesus can read our hearts. Christian, does your thought life bring glory and honor to God? Does your thought life worth the price Christ paid for it? 

Next that Jesus word has the power to heal. We’ve seen that, we know that God is able, and sometimes does do things outside of our ability to explain them with science. My mother for instance had rheumatoid arthritis, the doctors knew it. She’d been diagnosed. then one day her pastor prayed over her and others, and God took the rheumatoid arthritis away. The doctors were amazed. They went back and checked her blood work again, and the arthritis was gone. She was healed. Her bones are still a little twisted from the rheumatoid affecting her body for all those years. The problem was gone. She was healed. Jesus has the power to heal, his words have the power to heal. God’s word is so important for us to be reading. A wise man wrote “read many books, but live in the bible”. Are you living in your bible? May we never cease to be amazed by the reality that when Jesus speaks, disease runs, that death itself obeys when Jesus speaks. Jesus has authority to heal us. None of those other things are sovereign, but Jesus is. 

Thirdly Jesus has the power to forgive sin. 

There were two great needs in this passage, the mans physical needs, and his spiritual needs. His physical need was his paralysis. We aren’t told why he was paralyzed. We aren’t told when. This could have been something that happened a long time ago, and now his muscles are all atrophied and worn thin. Secondly was his spiritual needs. Scripture talks about what we are like in ephessians 2, that we are dead in our trespasses and sins, that we are by nature children of wrath. Because of the mans spiritual state, he was doomed to spend an eternity in Hell. Like the child chained to the barn wall, like the old man with the eyeball rotting out, like the little girl, with the arm that would ultimately kill her. All these people are lost and living apart from God. They deseparately need a savior who can heal them physically and spiritually. If sin is ultimately the root of all of our suffering, we need someone who has power over not only the demons, and the devil, but also over sin, and our suffering, and mark 2 makes clear that Jesus is the one that can do all of these things. Jesus is the one who can heal us by his command, Jesus is the one who can pay the price for our sin. Jesus is the one that can hold us close after we are saved. 

Jesus is what they need the most, and he meets them where they are at and works to address both needs. He heals the mans body, so he can walk, and live life normally, and more importantly he forgives the mans sins. 

The greatest need is Jesus. Jesus is the only one who was fully God and fully man, Jesus is the only one with the authority over sin and death and hell and satan. Jesus is the only one who was willing to die on the cross once and for all, for all of our sins past present and future. Jesus is the only one that can read our hearts and was willing to do that any way. 

Jesus never said, well when they act the way I want them to, then I’ll have compassion on them and save them. If we are to be Christ like, how should we respond to those in the world today that are hurting and lashing out? The gospel yes, that’s half the story. Did Jesus just give the man the gospel? Certainly not, he addressed what the man thought was his most important need, AND he addressed what Jesus KNEW was his most important need – the fact that he was a sinner destined for hell. 

Jesus addressed both. How should we respond to our neighbor then? You know the ones I mean. Should we hide out, remain silent, and quietly indignant about the things that they say? Every thing you and I have said and thought that was and is and will be sinful, Jesus knew those things, and he loved us enough to die for us. Do you love your neighbor enough to share the gospel with them? To walk across the street, and give them a hug, and let them know you get their most pressing felt need? Its things like that, that will open doors for the gospel. Its loving people where they are at that often time in their mind will earn you the opportunity to share the gospel. 

At the end of the day what is most important? Your rights? Or JEsus rights? What did Jesus set aside so that you would be saved? He suffered humiliation and indignities for you. Will you put those things aside, walk across the street and love on your neighbor like Christ loved you? Or will you silently snipe from across the internet. 

What did Jesus do for you?
What would Jesus want you to do for them? 

Cross the street. Give them a hug. Love on them a bit and share the life saving truth of the gospel of peace. If you want to see the world change, that’s how it happens. Not with snarky facebook posts. Not with feelings of self righteous indignation. Not with protests or riots. Cross the street. Introduce yourself. Love them. Then tell them about Christ’s love for them. 

Gospel. 