Our people group today is the Badhai of India. They are a craftsman cast that focus on carpentry. There are 585000 of them, all muslim without a single one being a believer in Jesus Christ to our knowledge. We need to keep them in prayer that they would have missionaries that would learn them, and share the gospel with them. There are no missionaries in their midst to my knowledge. Lets pray that God would send people to "Tell of His glory among the nations, His wonderful deeds among all the peoples. For great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised." 1 Chronicles 16:24-25

Were going to be in the gospel of mark this morning – open your bible to the new testament, you’ll find Mathew, then mark, if you get to luke or john or acts you’ve gone too far. Were on page _____ in the large print pew bible. 
While you are turning there, I want to ask you a question. We all know we have all, and still do things that displease God. I’ve heard people here talk, and even in church our language is scarred by sin. We also know we aren’t going to be fully free of the consequences of sin until one day when we stand in the presence of God with our glorified bodies. But let me ask you this, Are you holy? And what do you base that on. Can you feel the tension there? That we have been declared holy, and our sin paid for, but our actions still tell a different story and won’t perfectly reflect God’s holiness until we get to heaven one day. So we are at the same time already holy – by Christ’s sacrifice and decree, and yet in practice we are not yet holy. Sanctification is a progressive thing. Can anyone tell me the meaning of sanctification? It is the process by which we are made holy. 

I was talking to someone this week, and she was really upset. Shes very much against abortion, and one of her dear friends and a new believer told her that women have rights, and we shouldn’t be opposing abortion because God is loving, and that’s not a loving position to take towards women. 

She was outraged, and hurt, offended for the scriptures and for God that someone would so pervert scripture – and that is a perversion of scripture – so as to support the murder of kids. 

Before I had the chance to respond someone else piped up. He is relatively new to the faith as well. He pointed out there was a time when he had supported abortion as well. He was saved, and began attending a church that really didn’t do discipleship well. He didn’t know some basic things – like that we should form our world view around scripture, or that Jesus said its better to commit suicide than to cause a child to stumble. So he had formed his opinion about abortion from his liberal worldly upbringing and supported abortion for several years. Until one day he began going to a church that began to teach him these things, a church that put an emphasis on reading the bible. At that point the word of God had its renewing effects and began to draw him closer to God’s perspective on things. He began to see abortion as the evil that it is. It was ultimately a 5 year journey from lost person to one who rejected abortion. But I think his point is a valid one. Everyone has to start somewhere, but God loves us too much to leave us there doesn’t he.

Lets read our passage in Mark ch 4, starting in vs 26-34.

Right before this Jesus had been talking about the parable of the soils. Some soils are going to be rich and ready – no weeds, no rocks, nothing but the seed planted in the. Some are over loaded with weeds, and some are over heavy with rocks. For some the soil is hard packed and the seed just sits on the surface and dies. 

After that he talked about the parable of the lamp on a stand. Who would light their lamp and hide it under a bushel? 

So we know the context here is talking about salvation. The gospel. The seed is the gospel, the light is the gospel, is the work that our savior has done in our hearts. So when we get to the parable of the growing seed in vs 26 tonight, we know that its being given to us in the context of salvation as well. Sanctification is an included and related topic along with salvation. Because at the moment of salvation we are declared holy, but God has to continue working in us, to make us holy. To draw us towards him so we are capable of seeing him more clearly, and following him more closely. 

So that our desires are made new, and we begin to desire him above the things of the world. 

Let me ask you this. Is your TV more important or is God more important? For me that one is easy. I can live without a tv. There are plenty of other better things to do. If you can’t live without your tv should God ask you to, then maybe your TV is an idol. What about your couch? Can you live without your couch if God asked you to? Again for me that’s easy. I have other places to sit. If God wants my couch he can take it. What about your Bed. What if God took your bed? I have a hard time sleeping on the floor. But IF God told me to give up my bed, and sleep on the floor I would do my best to honor him in that. I don’t value my bed more than I value God. If I did, then maybe my bed is an idol. What about your house. I say this as one who lost everything back in 1993. What if God asked you for your house? That’s a lot harder to give up than a bed. Your house contains a lot of things, my house contains a lot of things that I love! I’m sure yours does too. Pictures of people we love that are gone, things that remind us of happy times. Things that make our lives easier, comforts, our house represents security – it’s a barrier from the elements, it keeps out intruders. Houses are easily turned into dozen idols if we aren’t careful. What about your family? This is a painful place for many of us. Is your happiness found in God, or in your family? Does your comfort come from God or from your family? Is it more important to you that you make your family happy, or that they be holy? Far too many people fall into the trap of trying to please their family, or their kids at the expense of their families holiness. For some people their family is their idol. That stings a little bit doesn’t it? You’re not alone in that. Usually what you hear from me up here on a Sunday, God’s been dealing with me on all week. Scripture says the Word of God is sharper than any two edged sword able to separate bone from marrow. We know that, and we believe that, and yet we are still surprised when we are stung by the tip of that blade as it cuts away another idol from our hearts. 

I’m not saying we shouldn’t love our families. But if we give them everything they want at the expense of their holiness than we aren’t really loving them. That kind of love can pave the way to hell. 

Spurgeon says ““If sinners be damned, at least let them leap to Hell over our dead bodies. And if they perish, let them perish with our arms wrapped about their knees, imploring them to stay. If Hell must be filled, let it be filled in the teeth of our exertions, and let not one go unwarned and unprayed for.” If we give people everything they want, if their happiness, comfort and security is our top priority – instead of their relationship with God, then we aren’t forcing them to leap to hell over our dead bodies. We aren’t wrapping our arms about their knees, we aren’t allowing them to go their in the teeth of our exertions. We are standing back at best, and at worst enabling them along that path. 

But what does God do? What did our passage today say, the kingdom of heaven is like this – seeds are planted and grow. They grow at night, and during the day. Everywhere God goes these seeds are being planted, and they are going to grow. God’s very presence in the life of a believer causes growth. Like that man. God led him to a church like ours that tells the truth, even if it is unpleasant sometimes. 

I have this picture of scales growing over our hearts. I think that’s something we long time believers are prone to sometimes. We get these scales that grow over our hearts, and we become numb to certain things we do that are wrong, and we become numb to the moving of God. Can God move us any way? Yes he can. Yes he does. But isn’t it better when we move with him, rather than because he forced us to?
Our hardheartedness towards God, and we all have it, it’s a massive problem in our society today. The thing that is worshiped most in our world today is our own happiness and pleasure. We want to fulfill the deepest desires of our heart. We have as part of our nations DNA the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. But I think most people have confused that to mean we have the right to happiness based on whatever our heart wants in the moment. That can’t be. The serial killer wants as the deepest desire of his heart to kill someone as he’s murdering. We can’t have everything our hearts desire. Our hearts are wicked and evil. Jeremiah says our hearts are deceitful above all things. Genesis says of man that our hearts are inclined continually towards evil alone. In the psalms it says there is no one who does good in the sight of the Lord, not one. Mathew says basically its only the heart, and mind of a man that makes him evil, that causes him to do evil things like adultery and murder. 

But God being rich in mercy and because of his great love for us, and by his presence in our hearts and lives begins the long slow work of purging the evil from our hearts. By his grace and mercy and love we are not who we are a year ago. Five years ago. 

So how should we live then? I believe that we have an effect on those around us as well. Especially in our family, even in our church, in our community. There are people who you and I interact with that will never darken the doorway of a church. But they see you. They know you. They know you are a Christian, and how you interact with them is going to come to define in their minds what a Christian is. 

Is a Christian someone who cusses right along with them? Is a Christian someone who gets drunk? Is a Christian someone who persues their own pleasure, convenience, comfort and security above what Christ wants from them? I want you to think about a lost person you know. If they were to use you and how you act around them, to define what a Christian is, what would they say? What about your family, does your influence on your family draw them closer to God, or enable them on their march towards hell. 

Collossians says we are hidden in Christ with God. When people around you see, you, who do they see? 

Every action and interaction is a chance to partner with Christ to draw the people in our midst to Christ. There will always be friction when the holiness of God encounters those lost in sin. People reject God because of the value they place on the sin their heart desires above all else. So you can expect some to resist you. But when God begins moving in their heart the resistance ends. I’m reminded of the imagery of the song “how he loves us” it says God’s love is a hurricane, and I am a tree bending beneath the weight of his grace and mercy. If his grace is an ocean, we are all sinking. 

So friend. Those people in your life, people who you and I interact with that will never darken the doorway of a church. But they see you. They know you. They know you are a Christian, and how you interact with them is going to come to define in their minds what a Christian is. 
If you were to ask them to describe to you what a Christian is based on their interactions with you. 

Would they describe Christ? 

As we close in prayer, I want to close with the prayer a puritan wrote several hundred years ago. 

He wrote: “I am blind, But YOU are my light,
 ignorant, but YOU oh God are my wisdom,
 self-willed, be my mind.
Open my ear to grasp quickly your Spirit’s voice,
 and delightfully run after his beckoning hand;
Melt my conscience that no hardness remain,
 make it alive to fight against evil’s slightest touch;
When Satan approaches may I flee to your wounds,
 and in your arms cease to tremble at all alarms.
Be my good shepherd to lead me into
  the green pastures of thy Word,
 and cause me to lie down beside the rivers
  of its comforts.
 I was a stranger, an outcast, a slave, a rebel,
 but thy cross has brought me near,
  has softened my heart,
  has made me thy Father’s child,
  has admitted me to thy family,
  has made me joint-heir with thyself.
O that I may love thee as thou lovest me,
 that I may walk worthy of thee, my Lord,
 that I may reflect the image of heaven’s first-born.
May I always see thy beauty with the clear eye
  of faith, and feel the power of thy Spirit in my heart,
 for unless he move mightily in me
 no inward fire will be kindled.

May Your Spirit speak in me that I may speak to You. I have no merit, let the merit of Jesus stand for me. I am undeserving, but I look to Your tender mercy. I am full of infirmities, wants, sin; You are full of grace.
I confess my sin, my frequent sin, my wilful sin; all my powers of body and soul are defiled: a fountain of pollution is deep within my nature. There are chambers of foul images within my being; I have gone from one odious room to another, walked in a no-man's-land of dangerous imaginations, pried into the secrets of my fallen nature.
I am utterly ashamed that I am what I am in myself; I have no green shoot in me nor fruit, but thorns and thistles; I am a fading leaf that the wind drives away; I live bare and barren as a winter tree, unprofitable, fit to be hewn down and burnt. Lord, do You have mercy on me?

You have struck a heavy blow at my pride, at the false god of self, and I lie in pieces before You. But You have given me another master and lord, Your Son, Jesus, and now my heart is turned towards holiness, my life speeds as an arrow from a bow towards complete obedience to You. Help me in all my doings to put down sin and to humble pride. Save me from the love of the world and the pride of life, from everything that is natural to fallen man, and let Christ's nature be seen in me day by day. Grant me grace to bear Your will without repining, and delight to be not only chiselled, squared, or fashioned, but separated from the old rock where I have been embedded so long, and lifted from the quarry to the upper air, where I may be built in Christ for ever.


