Mt 11:25-30

I struggled this week to put all of the pieces together for this weeks message. That happens some weeks, some weeks it just comes to me, and its apparent immediately where God wants me to go, and some weeks He makes me work for it a bit more. 

This week, has been a busy week for me. Fema inspectors, contractors, throwing things away. I’ve thrown away around 2000 books so far, and have about as many left to sort through. 

It occurs to me that the human life is full of struggles. Right? Difficulties of all kinds. We all have or have had kids that struggle. Some of us in this room have had pretty severe struggles in that regard. 

Some of us are struggling with our health. You guys that are on the prayer chain have been praying for George as he was in the hospital and recovering after that. We know Dalia who takes chemo therapy to feel better. 

Some of us have grandkids that are struggling. Some of us have or have had storm struggles. You guys know mine right now. I am appealing a decision by FEMA right now, which I knew in advance I’d have to do because of complicated way in which I own my home. 

We all have struggles. We talked about storms last week, we all have storms. 

I try and be open about what I’m going through, and struggling with when I’m struggling with something because I feel like it might help people, and hopefully if I am doing it right, pointing people to God and glorifying my creator. 

There is a line in a song that’s been one of my favorites for the last few years, the Chorus goes “Bring me joy, bring me peace, Bring the chance to be free, Bring me anything that brings You glory, And I know there'll be days, When this life brings me pain, But if that's what it takes to praise You, Jesus, bring the rain”. 

I think that’s especially relevant to our mens bible study we’ve been doing on Thursday nights, two weeks ago we read a chapter where the main couple in the story lose their son, and it triggered a lot of soul searching, and question asking. 

It triggered a bunch of heart rending in them. Is following Jesus worth it? 

So they set out across the world to all the persecuted places they can find to ask questions of Christians living under the most intense persecution, and they came across this guy who had been without realizing it a pastor in Communist Russia. All the churches had been shut down, and anyone that didn’t bow down to the communist party was removed as pastor. Churches were shut down. They would carefully question peoples kids, and find out if their parents had any religious affiliation, and if they had things like bibles, in their homes they were subject to even more scrutiny, and even arrests. 

Before long there were no churches, and this one family, the husband woke up one day and realized his children were growing up missing out on some important parts of their training. They had never heard things like the ten commandments, and other important things from scripture. So he approached his wife about once a week reading a few minutes from their bible, so the kids would understand their need for faith. His wife, as is often the case had been praying for him to realize he needed to be leading the family in that way for years, and she enthusiastically embraced the idea. 

One thing led to another, and before you know it they are singing, and worshipping too. Within six months they had 50 people from the community joining them each week. Which was wonderful, but the communists weren’t happy. Dimitri and his wife both lost their jobs, their children were expelled from school, and yet they continued to meet, and sing, and read the bible. within a few more months they hit 75, and when they hit 75 the communist police burst in and started beating up Dimitri, their pastor that didn’t realize he was a pastor, and threatened him with more beatings, prison and death, if he didn’t shut down his illegal church. On the policeman’s way out, this dear sweet little old woman leapt from the anonymity of the crowd right in front of the policeman who had been beating up their pastor, and she declared in a loud voice that his actions that day, caused his life to be forfeit. 

Pretty bold words, but you know what? Two days later he suddenly had a heart attack and died. Word of that spread pretty quickly and attendance ballooned to 125, and the communist police followed through on their promise, and they came and arrested him. His wife was left along then to raise their children to adulthood, without an income. 

Dimitri said he thanked the Lord for these little struggles. 

Think about the faith it takes to say that, little struggles. It was just prison for a quarter of my life, Praise God my struggles were little. It was only a beating. It was just my lifes work. Thank you lord for little struggles. 

Imagine that folks, imagine losing your ability to provide for yourself and your children. Imagine Not being sure where your mortgage will come from. Not sure where your kids food will come from. Not able to be hired anywhere, because the communists ran everything. 

Little struggles indeed. 

With that as the backdrop, I want us to read our passage today, were going to be in Mathew 11:25-30. 

So Jesus is speaking here to those who are heavy of heart. They were being weighed down as though by an anchor due to the preassures of every day of, the preassures of trying to satisfy all the 500+ laws of old testament Christianity in an effort to please God and not burn for eternity. Can you feel the stress of that? Hundreds of rules and laws found in the Old Testament and hundreds and hundreds more added on top of that through the priests at the temple. Things difficult to follow, that added a ton of extra work. One of the classic examples is that if you needed to travel on a Sunday, it was against the rules to do so, unless you had gone out and set up a series of “homes” every so far from each other. Then you were permitted to travel from camp site to camp site along your path so that you could reach your destination. 

Then there was the sacrifice system, which was set up in a sort of predatory manner at times. Oh that spotless lamb? Look at that trash, you obviously cant please God with that, so here buy this lamb from the temple, I know it doesn’t look as spotless as yours does, but trust me God likes this one better. Sort of like a used car salesman for sheep. But what could the average person say or do? Ok, yes sir, whatever you say sir. 

Life was hard. On top of all that they still had the same storms in life that we endure. Seeing our children struggle, our grand children struggle. Seeing our parents struggle. Struggling ourselves. Storms that damage houses. Storms that damage their method of transportation. They were just as weary as we can get, for many of the same or similar reasons. 

I think its important to point out the greater context here too. The previous five verses talked about the emptiness of what this world has to offer. Literally it says woe to this great city and that great city. Woe because every marvelous thing they’ve done in their own strength is going to be dust and ashes one day in judgement before God. I’ve said this before, but not in a while, for the lost person this world is as good as it will ever be. For the lost person this life is as close to heaven as it gets. Think about that for a minute. Hurricanes, earth quakes – did you hear about the devastating earthquakes in turkey? Fires – Hawaii has been devastated by fires, California is devastated by them every year. Hurricanes are a staple of life around here. Not just natural disasters either. Look at things like lawlessness. Hardly a day goes by that I don’t see someone posting disparaging whatever city they live in for the rampant crime. Theft. The kinds of crime that come from Drunkenness. I don’t know how many years ago, but it doesn’t seem like that long, my neighbor one house to the east of my parents decided to do something that he’s spent the rest of his life so far in jail for. He got behind the wheel of a car drunk and struck another vehicle while speeding killing the driver and her children. I could go on all hour about how terrible this world is. But I think you guys understand, looking around, things are not right with our world. Things are upside down, and backwards. Kids being preyed upon by adults in public, in churches, in schools, by their parents. Things that should never be are happening around us all the time, and have even touched some of us in this room. 

This messed up backwards world, is as close to heaven as it gets for a lost person. 

Can you imagine that? 

Faith under these circumstances is hard. A common refrain from young people today is “you just don’t understand”. But the people we are reading about did understand. If we were to roll back a few pages to the beginning of this chapter,we’d find John the Baptist. THE John the Baptist who was sitting their imprisoned for pointing people to Christ, sent Jesus a letter and said basically “are you really the one? Are you truly the one we’ve been waiting for? Or should we be looking for another one”. 

Even John the Baptist struggled some days with his faith. John the Baptist whose entire ministry was to point to his cousin Jesus, had days where he wondered. 

To be fair, most of us have never and will never be in prison for our faith and sharing the gospel. Which is a thing I am thankful for. Dimiti would call that a small loss. I think he gets it better than we ever could. 

One of my favorite preachers David Platt in a sermon this week pointed out a quote by another preacher named Alister McGrath. Who said “Doubt is natural within faith. It comes because of our human weakness and frailty.” Then he contrasts doubt with unbelief. He says, “Unbelief is the decision to live your life as if there is no God. It’s a deliberate decision to reject Jesus Christ and all that he stands for. But doubt is something quite different. Doubt arises within the context of faith. It is a wistful longing to be sure of the things in which we trust.”

One of my dear friends went from doubt to unbelief I’m afraid. Went from trying to follow Christ in his own strength to doing all the things Jesus hates, and not caring what Jesus thinks. 

Even John the Baptist doubted. I’m Sure Dimitri had his moments over 17 years in prison being beaten within an inch of his life for his love for Jesus. Seperated from his family. But in the end these things that seem like mountains of difficulty for us, Dimitri says are just little things. 

The big things are salvation, are losing people to an eternity apart from Christ. There is always hope while they are still alive, and once they are gone, precious little hope remains. And I only say little hope because in our western context the average lost person has heard the gospel 5-6 times in their life. Little hope because we don’t fully understand what happens as a person is taking their last breath, and I believe that even if it happened with their last breath, if in their heart and mind, in the fear of that moment they turned to Jesus that Jesus would save them. Little hope, but still hope. Jesus is in the business of saving sinners like me, and even in a persons final breath, He alone has the power to save. If you’re watching this and you’re lost, don’t bank on being saved at the last minute. Don’t put off for tomorrow what you should do today, and in a few minutes we will give you that opportunity. Death comes for us all eventually, and sometimes its things like cancer where it happens slowly over time, and other times its quick, and you don’t see it coming, like a meteor to the back of the head. 

Know where you are going to go before you ever get close to something like that happening. 

Alright, so In light of everything we’ve talked about how can Jesus say “my yoke is easy, and my burden is light”. In light of missionaries losing their children on the missions field to things that wouldn’t have happened here in the USA. 

Things like Dimitri losing out on some of the most important years for his sons while being beaten in prison. Things like Peter being crucified upside down. And other things tragic thigns happen to Christians around the world each and every day. Christians losing their jobs, and seeing their families put to death, or in the middle east being beheaded. Yet Jesus says “my burden is light”. 

The missionary Nik Ripken saw all of the Christians he knew in the entire country killed before he was forced to leave. People he had broke bred with. People he had surely labored in prayer for. People he had a hand in discipling. People who he went through life with for fifteen years. Yet Jesus says my yoke is light. 

First of all I think in context compared to some of the people we’ve talked about like Nik or Dimitri our yoke is light. No matter what else is going on in our lives, we aren’t seeing our son die at the culmination of what feels like fifteen years of failure as a missionary, mixed with the grief and fear of everyone you spent your life working with turning up murdered for their faith. 

You and I aren’t experiencing that. Praise Jesus. 

Secondly, I think people expect the Christian life to be easy, but its not. Sometimes followers of Jesus have to do follower of Jesus things. Hard things. 

But what does the bible say? Jesus in particular in Mathew says “behold I send you out as sheep among wolves”. Easy right? Sheep are such fierce creatures well adapted to defense. Oh wait. Nope. Sheep are kinda slow, and they have one defense, and that’s to run away. Half the time they don’t even run away in the right direction, and yet Jesus says we are going to be like that, sent out amoungst the wolves who are quite well equipped to kill a sheep. Easy right? Wrong. 

Jesus continues: “Be wise as serpents and innocent as doves. Beware of men, for they will deliver you over to courts and flog you in their synagogues, and you will be dragged before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them and the Gentiles.” Easy right? 

David Platt points this out: Jump down to Matthew 10:38. Jesus says, “And whoever does not take his cross” —an instrument of torture and death— “and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.” Lose your life. That’s not an easy way. 
We could keep going all the way to the end of Matthew and the verses we quote to each other at the end of our worship gatherings, Matthew 28:18–20:
And Jesus came and said to them, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.” 
Is making disciples easy? Is it easy for you to go into your workplace this week, share the gospel and lead people to become followers of Jesus? No! Is it easy to do that in your school? Is it easy to do that in this city? Is it easy to go to the nations where it’s difficult if not dangerous to make disciples? Then think about the phrase “teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you.” Think about all Jesus commands us to do.”
Burdens are hard. They are heavy, or they wouldn’t be a burden, and we – even we as Christians go through seasons of hardship, where our burdens might feel to us especially heavy. Burdens in all the realms we’ve talked about. 

But what does Jesus say? “In this world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.” We are promised that this life will have trouble. But that Jesus, the one we follow has overcome them. 

It is in that context that Jesus says his yoke is easy, and his burden is light. He’s already overcome all of that for us. 

Second of all, because we are from a modern industrialized culture we miss out on the reference here. When you are training oxen – and I didn’t know this till this week. When you’re training oxen you take your biggest best trained ox, and you yoke him to your little baby tiny untrained ox. In that situation, little tiny ox, and great big daddy ox, which ox do you think is actually doing the pulling? Baby ox or daddy ox? Naturally the big ox carries the load, and the little ox follows along with the big ox doing the work. This teaches the little ox to trust the big ox, and the little ox learns how to be the big ox over time. 

David platt Shared an illustration about this that he gave at a church camp for the kids. He said “Everyone in the camp was split into recreation teams and one of the team names was “Duane ‘The Rock’ Johnson Team.” So I said to them, “Imagine getting into a yoke with this guy Duane,  You’re not going to say, “Rock, I got this. I’ll carry us.”  You’re going to say, “Rock, I’m going to let you take the lead on this one.” 

That’s the picture Jesus is giving here, except Jesus is infinitely greater, infinitely stronger than “The Rock” Johnson. We’re talking Jesus here—God in the flesh. The one who spoke and the world came into being. The one who upholds the universe by the word of his power. The one who is saying to you, “I’m inviting you to get in the yoke with me and I will carry your load.” Jesus is not saying, “Hey, let’s do this 50-50 arrangement. I’ll pull my part, you pull yours. I’ll help you, you help me.” No, Jesus doesn’t need your help. He’s God. Jesus is saying, “I will carry this weight with you and for you.” 

Faith isn’t hard. Apart from Jesus Christ faith is impossible. You cannot do it on your own. So Jesus says come to me all you who are weak and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Its as though He says “come on in, get in this yoke with me, and I’ll do all the pulling, just stay close. I’ve got this for you. I will carry this with you and for you. “. 

We are told to cast our cares upon him, because he cares for us. He can carry all the weight for us. We don’t have to hold onto it any more. Because Jesus is protecting us. He’s protecting our children. He’s looking after our needs for food and housing. He’s the big ox, and we just need to stay close to him. 


David Platt says “God has power to take that which is broken and hard and bring about beauty”. 

All of these struggles and hardships that weight you down are the raw materials God is using to make something beautiful. Like clay in the hands of a master sculpter. Or paint in the hands of a master. We are held in the strong hands of our master, and even in the mdist of all this. He is forming you into something beautiful to accomplish his purposes in your life, and in this world. 

All the while he is right there in the yoke with us. But even that is an incomplete picture because as Christians we know that God himself indwells us. So for the Christian, he is right there, living inside of us, leading us, and pulling the weight. So when we find ourselves overly stressed out, and were feeling ground up by this world we live in. When we are feeling the weight of the burden, maybe sometimes – not always – but sometimes its because we are out of step with God, and need to slow down, and rely on Him. To spend time with him in prayer. To spend time with his word. To spend time fellowshipping with other believers. Trying to do anything else will just leave a bruise as we try and shoulder a load not intended for us to carry alone. 

Gospel. 