“Aslan is a lion- the Lion, the great Lion." "Ooh" said Susan. "I'd thought he was a man. Is he-quite safe? I shall feel rather nervous about meeting a lion"..."Safe?" said Mr Beaver ..."Who said anything about safe? 'Course he isn't safe. But he's good. He's the King, I tell you.”

I saw an article on facebook this week called common evangelism excuses. Which got me googling, and I found about a hundred lists of 3-30 reasons why people don’t tell others about Jesus. But before we dig into that, who can tell me who won the superbowl? What was the score? Who made MVP? 

What about wider than that, whats popular on tv right now? I know my dad likes to watch Leave it to Beaver almost every morning, but I’m guessing that’s not going to be everyone. What are we watching out there? You don’t have to answer this, but think about whatever the last episode was about. I mean not if it was inappropriate. Were at church.  But seriously. You know whats going on with your top few favorite tv shows. Most of us men know whats going on with our sports team or teams. I had a friend in college who knew off the top of her head all of the nascar stats for as far as I know every single driver. She could rattle off lap times, and season points, and refered to the drivers on a first name basis. She could even name the stats for the dead and retired drivers. She knew the engine types, the car makes, the crew chiefs name, she could tell you their favorite tires, and which tires would do best on which track. She knew an impressive amount of data about everything related to nascar. Every time I saw her she had atleast one piece of nascar clothing on, a hat, a jacket and so forth. Her most prized possession was a race worn jacket from 2006 which was apparently his worst year ever racing. She had that thing on a mannequin in her livingroom. Her TV was not in the center of the wall, her raceworn jacket was. The TV was offset beside it. Ive known Guys who were just as passionate about Marvel or DC, who would wax eloquently about what would actually happen if Captain America tried to pick up thors hammer. Cross franchise questions too, what if Batman tried to pick up thors hammer? What if Superman faced off against the Hulk? They can exegete comic books like a pro. Still others ive known were keeping up with the Kardashians. Or lived or died based on what Charli Damelio posted on snap my twitter face tok.  Others are tied up in actuarial tables, and math trying to reduce the complexities of the stock market down into a handful of investments that might make them a lot of money. You get the idea right? Most people have their thing. Maybe its not nascar, or leave it to beaver, but you’ve got something you can’t miss. We used ot tease my dad, one year – my sister could tell you exactly which one, we had to reschedule my sisters birthday party because it conflicted with a tv show called survivor. 

Lots of things capture our attention. Lots of things can keep us from sharing the gospel. Some people had a list of over a 100. 
But I think in the end they came down to about four categories. The first is Lack of knowledge. Some people just don’t know that this is a thing Christians do, and those that do know of God’s command frequently say they just don’t know how. Well, the first one is easy to deal with, the Bible says over and over to Go share the gospel. To share the good news. To tell people about Jesus. SO, to that end. Go tell people about Jesus. Now you know you’re supposed to. The second part of that, not knowing how is almost as easy to address. If you’re like me, and you can wax eloquent about your favorite tv show, or sports team, or book franchise, or marvel, or DC comicbook super heros or music, or horses, or ten thousand other things, then you certainly possess the capacity to learn how to share the gospel, just have to this point lacked the desire to do so. This goes for memorizing and reading scripture too. Its not that we can’t, its that we don’t, and wont. That’s a heart issue. A sin issue. 

Lets read our passage, and then we will keep going through our list. 

Mt 28:16-20

Before we get back to the evangelism objections, lets look at the text. 

Where in the text does God give us the wiggle room to back out of sharing the gospel. 

ESV reads: Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. 

Go, therefore. Not Go, if you feel well. Not Go if you remember. Not Go once you memorize the scripture, it simply says to Go. Right now. Don’t wait. It reminds me of Philip in acts. He’s right there in the middle of God moving in a powerful way, and God tells him to go. So what does Philip do? But God, wait, I gotta do this, or do that. Nope. Philip high tales it out of there. He runs the bible says. 

The faithful Christian responds to Gods commands immediately. So when he tells us to “Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. 

When does he expect us to do that? 

Where does he expect us to do that? Here, there and everywhere. In our homes, at our schools, in line at the grocery store, and everywhere else. Including the hard places of the world. Some of us may be called to take the gospel to the dark and stormy recesses of the world. 

Here in the usa It may be that God is calling you to take the gospel to the girl with the rainbow hair, or to the young man covered in tattoos. Maybe hes asking you to take the gospel to your neighbor across the street. 

Maybe. Just maybe God’s asking you republicans to take the gospel to a democrat, or vice versa. Maybe God’s calling you democrats to take the gospel to a republican. The answer is God’s calling us to take the gospel to everyone. I was reading about a man named Martin Loyd Jones, and its said that he never once to anyones knowledge ever spent more than ten minutes with a new person without sharing the gospel with them. 

GO indeed. That is what is in view when Jesus commands us to Go. Hi, nice to meet you, let me tell you about Jesus.  

The second reason people often neglect the gospel is fear. Fear of rejection, fear of getting it wrong. What if they don’t like me, or my family as a result. We’re afraid we’ll lose business or get passed up for that promotion. What if they stop inviting my kids to the birthday parties? What if talking about Christ makes seeing my neighbors awkward? What if they lump me together with Ned Flanders or the Westboro Baptist Church-cult? Fear is a powerful motivator, and there are times when it helps keep us alive. If you ever encounter a lion in the woods, fear will probably help keep you alive. But if fear keeps you from doing what God commanded then fear is a sin; or perhaps worse fear is an idol for you. But what does God say about fear? Lets all turn there and read it together. 2 tim 1:7 For God did not give us a spirit of fear but of power, and love, and discipline. Third when fear stops us from doing what God wants, then it is a way we say “God I trust me more than you”. Let me ask you this. God who holds our molecules together, God whose footstool is the heavens. God who fine tuned our universe so that we would both be safe from most world ending disasters – and if you didn’t know about that, the way he designed our solar system, any big asteroids, anything life altering, will almost always hit Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, or Neptune, and miss us completely. They are like four sentrys standing guard. In fact in an article in newsweek, scientists were marveling at Jupiter especially, calling it our guardian angel. Yet in other solar systems, their gas giants wreck things, and because of their chaos and weird gravity tend to ruin planets that could otherwise support life. God did that for us. He put us just in the right place in the solar system to protect us, and yet, not so deep in that we couldn’t observe much of the milky way. God knew we would be curious and put us in a place where we could satisfy that curiosity through what we have come to call science. If we were any deeper in the milky way, observing things beyond it, and even observing much of the milky way would be impossible. That’s the kind of God we serve. One whose foresight and planning we come to better understand each day. And even now in 2024 we are still learning new things about how and perhaps why God designed things like he has. 

Let me ask you this, if you were to design a solar system, would you know how close is too close to earth for Jupiter to be? Would you know how to make Jupiter spin in such a way that it deflects or catches most any thing that would have harmed earth? Just how much does a planet like that need to weigh and how far from the sun and earth should it be? 

So whose hands are better equipped for handling those issues? Certainly not mine. Do you think that you are better at astrophysics than God? What about when it comes to health? DO you think that you’re better off in the hands of man, or in the hands of God? Does anyone here think Covid was something God didn’t foresee and plan around? God is sovereign over everything. AND God not only expects us not to be ruled by fear, but tells us he has not given us a spirit of fear. So if you’re fearful, where is that coming from? Sometimes maybe our enemy, but for sure its coming from our own human hearts. We are in a very real sense hauling around a dead body, and trying to obey its wishes, instead of Gods. Its not until we fully put our faith and trust and hope in Jesus that we are truly free from the sinful kinds of fear. Faith isn’t the absence of fear, but choosing to be obedient in the midst of fear. Choosing to follow Jesus, even if it means talking to a democrat. Or talking to a republican. Or possibly being exposed to covid. Its sharing the gospel, regardless of what other people might think of you. Sharing the gospel, even if you are rejected. They rejected Jesus afterall. We shouldn’t expect to be treated better than our savior. 

thirdly is apathy and lack of concern for the lost. 

I think this mostly happens to long time Christians. We grow scales over our heart, and we no longer feel the urgency, and need that the lost have for jesus. 

Piper writes “Some of us just don’t care that much about lost people. We wouldn’t ever say it, but our priorities and lives reveal it. We make no time in our busy schedules to interact and engage with those who don’t know Christ. We have long stopped praying for lost people in our neighborhoods and workplaces. We have no non-Christian friends, and barely any ties. Lost people are a low priority. For instance, when was the last time you invited someone into your home who did not know Christ?” 

and so “We lack compassion for the lost. We have long forgotten what it was like to live without hope, lost and apart from Christ. We rarely consider that those who do not obey Christ “will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord” (2 Thessalonians 1:9). We just don’t care that much. We might say we care, but we rarely cry out to God for the salvation of our lost neighbors, coworkers, and classmates. Paul’s compassion in Romans 9:3 is utterly foreign to us: “I could wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers.””

Fourthly, if you’re not sharing the gospel, it might be the other three things, but it could also be that you are yourself still lost. If you have never learned the way, how can you share it with others? 


Piper gives us four tools to combat these four sinful excuses. Excuses we have ALL had at one point or another. 

Firstly, to pray for those who are lost. Make a list of the people in your life that are lost, and be intentional about praying for them each day by name. Put them on the prayer list. Bring them up at the bible study. Lets pray for those folks so that they can come to the saving knowledge and faith in Jesus Christ. 

Secondly, recall the gospel together. Paul challenges us to preach the gospel to ourselves, and in another passage to share the gospel with all of creation. Practice on your cats, and your dogs, be so free with the gospel that your talking parrots can say the gospel along with you. Someone once said “I want to be so full of Christ that if a mosquito bites me it flies away singing there is power in the blood! We should be so immersed in the gospel it seeps out of our pores. 

Bridges writes:      To preach the gospel to yourself, then, means that you continually face up to your own sinfulness and then flee to Jesus through faith in His shed blood and righteous life. It means that you appropriate, again by faith, the fact that Jesus fully satisfied the law of God, that He is your propitiation, and that God’s holy wrath is no longer directed toward you.

    To preach the gospel to yourself means that you take at face value the precious words of Romans 4:7-8: “Blessed are they whose transgressions are forgiven, whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will never count against him.”

    It means that you believe on the testimony of God that “Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus” (Romans 8:1). It means you believe that “Christ redeemed [you] from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for [you], for it is written ‘Cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree’” (Galatians 3:13). It means you believe He forgave you all your sins (Colossians 2:13) and now “[presents you] holy in his sight, without blemish and free from accusation” (Colossians 1:22).

    Turning to the Old Testament, to preach the gospel to yourself means that you appropriate by faith the words of Isaiah 53:6: “We all, like sheep, have gone astray, each of us has turned to his own way; and the LORD has laid on him the iniquity of us all.”

    It means that you dwell upon the promise that God has removed your transgressions from you as far as the east is from the west (Psalm 103:12), that He has blotted out your transgressions and remembers your sin no more (Isaiah 43:25). But it means you realize that all these wonderful promises of forgiveness are based upon the atoning death of Jesus Christ.

    It is the death of Christ through which He satisfied the justice of God and averted from us the wrath of God that is the basis of all God’s promises of forgiveness. We must be careful that, in preaching the gospel to ourselves, we do not preach a gospel without a cross. We must be careful that we do not rely on the so-called unconditional love of God without realizing that His love can only flow to us as a result of Christ’s atoning death.

Thirdly piper says we should apply the gospel together, and part of that means sometimes we need to tell our brothers and sisters to have more courage, or warn them of the apathy that’s apaprtn in their lack of reading the bible, and praying, and worshipping, and memorizing scriptures.

Finally fourthly Piper says If we do not believe the sufficiency of the gospel, we will never share it boldly and simply. Yet, if we truly believe that God’s word does the work of conversion through the power of his Holy Spirit, we will unabashedly share the simple and unadorned truth of the gospel. A truncated and inadequate gospel will quickly be abandoned and never shared. But a gospel that can save by grace through faith — apart from works — as a free gift (Ephesians 2:8-9) is believed, treasured, and declared boldly.

With fellow believers, we must remind each other of the sufficiency of God’s word to do his work for his purposes. If we are confident in the ability of the gospel to transform lives, we can boldly and indiscriminately proclaim this good news with sacrificial love to the lost in the hope that some will be saved.

The book the men have been reading, the insanity of God puts a pretty fine point on things. As Christians who should we follow? 


Right. What if in our disobedience with the gospel, we are instead following the enemy? I think its pretty clear that our enemies goal is to limit peoples access to the gospel. For some, he encourages them to engage in sex out side of marriage, or drugs, or alcohol to deaden peoples hearts toward God and his word. For the Christian though, he makes our hearts hard, makes us too busy with things that don’t matter. He makes elevate things above our bibles, and evangelism and worship. He lures us in, and luls us into not sharing the gospel. 

So if the enemies plan is to keep us from sharing the gospel, then by not sharing the gospel which side are we serving, God’s side? Or the side of our enemy. 

For those of you that are here for the first time, and 



