Naaman , Elisha, and the dirt. 

2 kings 5:1-17. 

I spoke with a man this week who told me God is not sovereign over sin. What do you think about that. Is God powerful enough to make sin stop?

You don’t have to answer. While we are turning to our passage this morning I want to talk about our people group of the week. 

Finally before we read, I want to talk about leprosy. Leprosy is commonly viewed as a disease that makes your body rot away, but actually it’s a little more pernicious than that. Leprosy is a disease that takes away your bodys warning system. My ex brother in law didn’t have leprosy but the nerves in his hands were weird. So as a party trick he would reach right into the hot oven, and grab that 400 degree pan right out without pain, without care, and set it on a hot pad on the counter. Likewise I heard a story about a young boy in india, where leprosy is very much a thing. His teacher was trying to open a rusty old padlock, and this little ten year old boy in the classroom said teacher teacher let me try. Its said the teacher looked at the malnourished, waif and agreed never expecting the child to be able to do what he could not. 

So the child grasps the lock, and it turns, and comes free. 

Only then did the teacher realize the cost, the key had cut this lepper childs fingers clear to the bone. 

Leprosy is curable now. It’s a time consuming, expensive, painful treatment, but it can definitely be cured. I actually met someone that had experienced leprosy in the past, and she said shed never seen a bigger needle. Didn’t know they made them that size.

Leprosy was a huge deal back then. You couldn’t be with your family any more, you couldn’t be with your friends any more. Only other leppers. Only outside of the city. It was isolating and austere. Might mean going hungry. Might mean a lot of things. 

Leprosy is where we find Naaman when we start reading our passage today. 

Lets read 2 kings 5:1-17

So right off the batt we meet a man named Naaman. He’s infected with leprosy. Its basically a death sentence. But I think the king keeps him around any way because of how useful he had been with the help of God. Its interesting to me, I heard someone once say that God only works in those who are believers. I’d change that up to God works in his elect. Naaman isn’t even saved, and yet with the help of God VS 1, he had become sort of a local legendary hero. One of the legends comes from a first century historian named Josephus who calims that Naaman was the man who fired the lucky arrow that struck down a disguised king ahab. Ahab was the husband to the wicked Jezebell and was king around this time frame while Elijah was a prophet. Remember the story of Elijah and the prophets of baal? That helps date this passage. Naaman, Jezebell, Ahab, Elijah and Elisha were all contemporaries of earch other. As captain of the army, he wouldn’t be far from being so disabled he couldn’t ride the horse. Leprosy was a death sentence. He was facing losing his position, and authority, and maybe even his home, all because of leprosy. 

I think one thing that stands out is his little servant girl. This was in an age when speaking up could mean death. Yet with boldness and passion she asks her mistress, her captor, the one who defeated her countries army, to travel to israel and seek Elisha. 

I don’t know about you, but If someone had kidnapped me that would be a bit of a hard sell. You want me to show compassion on the one that killed my countrymen? Imagine what it would be like if one of the family members of the 9/11 hijackers walked into our church this morning. What would you






















