So as we pick the story back up in Nehemiah 8 tonight, the timing is an important thing to consider. 7 months have passed since the completion of the wall, and so the timing is intentional. So I think its something we should talk about as we pick back up in Nehemiah 8. While you’re turning there I’ll fill you in on the details. 

So the time is the seventh month of the Hebrew calendar. This is the time of the end of the harvest, and is considered to be the end of the Hebrew year which is marked by the harvest. It is not the last month on their calender like December – the end of our year is for us. In any event these are the feasts and abd celebrations that take place at this point in time. 

The New moon festival, celebrated on the first of the month. In the seventh month, on the first day they also celebrated Rosh Hashanah – which is the Jewish new year celebration. Thirdly from the first through the 8th was the feast of trumpets. Fourth was Yom Kippur or the day of atonement, and finally the feast of tabernacles, which also lasts for seven or 8 days depending on whether you live in Jerusalem or not. So this was a time of celebration and excitement. I think the seven months were to allow people to pull in a harvest and recover a little from the building of the walls. It was to allow time for Nehemiah and Ezra to make preperations for this event as well. They built a tower in front of the water gate for instance. 

We take for granted that the entire bible is available to us in one book of reasonable weight. Until the time of Nehemiah and Ezra the old testament existed as a bunch of scrolls spread out around the world. The Israelite people didn’t put too much stock or focus on the scriptures until this point. Life for the Hebrew up until the sacking of the first temple/solomons temple in 586 centered around temple life. If you wanted a job, you talked to other jews at the temple and they connected you with someone who would hire you. You needed a loan? You could find one from connections made at the temple. You needed food? Guess where you could make a connection that would help you eat? Today its where you would meet car mechanics, computer techs, motorcycle mechanics, teachers of all things, not to forget bankers, politicians, janitors and presidents and servants. It was their commercial, cultural, and social hub. Want to meet up with your friends to go do something? Lets meet at the temple. It was the absolute center of their life. To the point where it might have been an idol for them. So any way, about a hundred years prior in 586bc God allowed the city to fall, and the temple of Solomon was destroyed. For much of the next century they struggled to find a new identity, and today in the midst of these celebrations, at the beginning of their seventh month, God through Nehemiah and Ezra tried to give them a new identity surrounding the what we now call the old testament, or the old covenant. Ultimately things didn’t click until after 70ad after the destruction of the second temple. BUT the old testament was a greater part of their life for several generations after the events we are about to read in Neh 8. Hopefully you’ve brought your bible, and I hope you have. 

So we’ve talked about some of these feasts before. The feast of booths for instance. It was symbolic of their deliverance from Egypt, and their time spent follow God as a pillar of fire. Can you picture what it would have been like to see the red sea parted? The awe experienced by those following moses? Or what it would have been like to have been fed from the sky day after day after day, and in the middle of a desert to get water from a stone! Imagine the awe of seeing moses go up to the top of a mountain where you could see a cloud that represented Gods presence, lightning cracking all around him. Then seeing him come down the mountain pale and glowing for nearly the rest of his life. To see Jericho fall, and all these other enemies of God thwarted at every turn by the miraculous power of God. Reading about the plagues at Egypt, Aarons staff budding, remember we talked about the brazen serpent a few weeks back. Not to mention the story of david and goliath, Abraham and Isaac, Or Elijah and the prophets of baal, or at the brooke cherith, or the ministry of Elisha and Isaiah and Jonah and Daniel. 

Their minds would have been blown. Not only I think would he have read the good things but the bad thigns. Israels history has always had cycles of faithfulness and unfaithfulness. They start following the lord God, and then fall away. Fall back into sin. Demand a king. Get conquered, held in captivity. Put out there all at once six hours a day for maybe two weeks this would have been a watershed moment for Israel. It would have had a serious impact. Scripture talks about how we are like gold refined in the fire, well they had been heated up and scraped for a century and now God poured them into a mold and was hammering out the flaws. 

Think about that for a moment, could you imagine sitting there listening to any preacher preach for six hours? Some of you might be saying amen, praise Jesus church is just an hour. But a friend of mine told me a story this week that I thought fit. He’s a preacher too, a young man, and a recent graduate at southeastern. He until recently had been a pastor of a church. Any way, about two weeks ago the preaching prof at southeastern James Shaddix sent him (my friend David)  an email and asked him to preach for him this past Lords day at his church in Raleigh. My friend agreed, and the began working out the specifics. Prof Shaddix told him the first service of the day he only had 45 minutes, but for the second service his time was unlimited. Shaddix philosophy is that short sermons are short on impact, and that if you want christianettes you preach sermonettes. I think Shaddix would have loved to be there along side Ezra and seen him preach for six hours a day every day, and while the scripture was reading the people had so much respect for the authority of the word of God that they stood, still and listened for that whole entire period. All work across the city had stopped. If the children were present even they seemed to be quiet and unobtrusive. Everyone was transfixed by the power of the word of God. 

You know, One of my favorite pastors made a point about this passage, he said you know we may not have the most experienced pastor here to lean on, we may not have the best preacher, but what we do have is the words of God very God. 

There is power in the word of God, there is hope in the word of God, there is healing in the word of God. 

If you look in ch9 vs1 you’ll see how they responded. They fasted, they wore sackcloth and ashes – signs of mourning probably their sin. They confessed their sin vs 2, and recount how merciful God had been to them, and how sinful they had been towards God. 

Some have asked why I believe that you can never lose your salvation, and while we’ve talked about it before from passages in John that explicitly spell it out, I think its implicitly spelled out here. After being freed from slavery in Egypt, what did the Israelites do? Grumbled and complained about and to moses, about and to God that he had delivered them from their lives of comfort in plenty in Egypt only to kill them in the desert. Over and over they whined and complained. Getting angry with God for freeing them. Disobeyed as soon as the opportunity presented it self. Moses went up the mountain, and after barely a month they instantly demand an idol to worship. Not 3 or 5 generations. One single month. Every opportunity it seemed like at the drop of a hat they turned from God and did whatever seemed good in their own eyes it says in Judges. But do we not sometimes do the same thing? If you have been perfectly obedient this past week, go ahead and raise your hand. Of course not. If you had that would tell me a few areas I could suggest you work on. We all fall short of the glory of God scripture says! Failure is in our old nature. Our new nature is something that grows on us. It is one of those things that is already but not yet. So the moment of your salvation, you are given a new nature. With that new nature if something happens, you’re going to heaven for sure. But its like any skill, or trade or craft. Righteousness is something you grow into over time. You’re never fully righteous on your own merits. But it is something that grows like a plant. You stick that little seed in the ground, and it slowly grows over time. It starts out as a seed, and turns into a little sprout, two little cotyledons stretching towards the sun like little solar panels. Over time that sprout begins to grow true leaves, and then ultimately over the course of a life time that tiny seed becomes a mighty oak. Tall, and strong by stretching towards the son. Its like that for the Christian as well. To the extent we grow towards the son, we become a microcosm of a mighty oak.  But for the Christian it means actively engaging in a few different disciplines. 

First of all reading your bible. Reading your bible is as necessary as taking a bath and for many of the same reasons. It washes us, it cleans us. It helps keep us from sin. It helps us stay atuned to the heart of Christ. 

Its kind of like we are all a part of an orchestra. How good would that orchestra sound if we were all playing with instruments that were out of tune. Or playing our own music in a chaotic disharmony. The bible helps keep us in tune, on key, and in time with each other so that were making a beautiful noise together. 

Have you ever seen or played with a tuning fork?  It’s a little device you hit, and it generates a sound. From that sound you can tune a piano, or your guitar, or whatever instrument. The bible is like that for us. But listen, just owning one, and keeping it on your coffee table isn’t going to help you is it? If you just left your tuning fork on the table, is it going to keep your Piano, or guitar in tune? Certainly not! If you leave a hammer on a coffee table, is it going to build a porch for you on its own? Will it repair your house for you? Will your wrenches hop up and run over and fix your car all on their own? Certainly not. Tools require someone to use them, or else they are just useless bits of metal. 

The bible requires use as well. 

Likewise Worship helps draw us closer to the Lord and keep our hearts in tune with him. We can worship any time, its not just something that happens at church. You tube, Pandora, itunes, any music service has these same songs that we sing – some of them even for free. Revival in our chapter tonight started when Nehemiah reinstituted worship in the city. 

Evangelism helps us as well. There is some precedent in scripture for preaching the gospel to your self daily. Reminding you of where you’ve come from, and how far God’s brought us. Like that hymn I love – here I raise my Ebenezer hither by thy help ive come. In other words without Christ would any of us be where we are now? Certainly not. Kurt, where would you be apart from Christ? Kenny? 

Finally is fellowship with other believers.   This is something that isn’t often talked about but its absolutely vital. We often become so consumed with our own needs that we forget about the needs of the community off faith around us, and their needs. We become so consumed with what I want, what I feel liked I need. What I don’t like. What I don’t want. What I don’t need. Whats at the heart of each of those statements? Its one letter. I. If you owe someone money, pay them. Put off buying that new xbox game or whatever. Likewise, if you’re going to loan money, or time, or services, do it without expectation of repayment because you’re giving it to God. The Lord loves a cheerful giver, how do you think he feels about a grumbling one? 

Next fellowship, and by fellowship, I mean two things. Not only going to a church, but becoming a member of the church. Because that is the scriptural model. People living in covenant ffellowship relationships with each other. They went a lot further back then, than is probably even possible today. We see people selling their homes, and giving the money to the church. They wouldn’t do that for a group they weren’t committed to. I’m not asking you guys to sell your house, and this isn’t a sermon on tithing. But what were looking at is that level of commitment to the local body of believers. In for a penny, in for a pound, come hell or highwater they were committed to their church. IN fact not only do we see this in scripture, but we see this as the model demonstrated by the church from the first century on clear up until about the 1300s, and then again from the 1500s through the 1900s, where it suddenly became de-emphasized. There are a lot of reasons for this – the rise of secularization in the church, our cultural commitment phobia, even church growth. People are afraid that if they ask for people to commit, that they will get scared and run off, so the best way to grow is by not asking for any kind of commitment.. I won’t get into them all. But needless to say we’ve already discussed the root of the problem. People became more focused on what? What were they focused on? I. That’s right. People who don’t join churches, are often struggling deeply with selfishness, with putting themselves first before God. 

Commitment to the local body of believers is so vitally important! What kinds of things do believers do together? When we come together here what do we do? We worship together, we fellowship together, we break open the word of God. Evangelism happens here. Scripture says In Deuteronomy as iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. Which brings light to an important truth. When iron is being sharpened, how does that happen? Two ways. To put the initial sharp edge on a knife, you run the metal over a grinder, or a stone. That slowly cuts away bits of metal, until the master knifesmith is happy with the edge you have. Then you flip the knife over and do it again. Little tiny pieces of metal are scraped off. Then the knife is polished, and sold. If the knife already has an edge, its dull because if you were to look at it under a microscope the sharp edge (use hands to show what it would look like) should look like this, but a dull edge, looks like this. So the sharpening process involves forcing littly pieces of metal to get back into line properly so that it can once more be a sharp, usefull tool in the hands of God. 

So in practice what does that mean? Things like your neighbor stealing your parking spot, and calling your land lord to try and get you in trouble. Or things like, there is a guy right now that says he works for me. But I haven’t even seen him in the time period he references. How could I have employed him? Yet he’s going around telling people this. This and more happens all the time within the church as well. People committing to doing things, and falling through leaving someone else in the lurch. Other people who have no tact saying things that cause offense. Other people with too thin skin, and on and on and on. People were dealing with people. But here’s the thing. God has put these other people in our lives to sharpen us. To slowly grind away at our dull points and to make us sharper more useful tools in the hands of our master. Do you understand what I’m saying here? Can you relate? God has arranged the best possible group of people to be part of our church so that we will sharpen each other in the ways that God wants us to be sharpened most, for his glory, and for the expansion of the Kingdom of God in both quantity and quality. 

Growth can be hard, and awkward, and is often painful. But God has a purpose for it. Don’t lose sight of his purpose in the midst of your struggles. 

Jesus said come to me all you who are weary and heavy laden and I will give you rest. 

I don’t know about you guys, but every now and then I find my self feeling weary and tired. Once or twice I’ve thought about taking a night off. But every time I come to church, and spend time in his word, and fellowshipping with you guys, I may leave with a tired body, but I leave with a soul that has been refreshed. I’m always glad for the time we spend together. I’m always happy to have been here. 

Gospel presentation, if new people. Otherwise opportunity to join the church. To commit to a body of believers, who is just as committed to you. 

Announcement: VBS, Food Pantry, a year ago this month was the official launch. Pray for those who couldn’t make it tonight due to health etc. 

Pray for Ahkmed Abdulla. Might be joining us in the weeks to come. Pray that God be preparing his heart for the seeds of the gospel to be planted. That you would be working on drawing him to your son even now. 

Love you guys!!


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              



