I read a story in highschool about a man who was born in Africa, and a neighboring African tribe attacked in the night, and kidnapped him, and all of the others in his tribe. They sold all the boys and girls, and men and women that they did not decide to keep for themselves. Ultimately the boy ended up in Europe, became a believer in Jesus Christ, and traveled back to Africa to tell them about what he had learned. 

Something very similar happens in our passage tonight neh 5. Now slavery in America and Europe was different than slavery in bible times. A biblical slave was basically forced servitude – but – they had standards that were enforced. They had to be fed, couldn’t be abused, could buy their freedom and so forth. Indeed it was easy to end up a slave back then as well. If you didn’t pay your bill, they could cause you to be their slave until your debt was paid. Aren’t we glad that doesn’t happen today? I know I am. 

To sum up the situation in brief. They had control of the city back but they didn’t necessarily own the lands around the city – certainly not enough to feed everyone. Not only that, but it was an all hands on deck, or wall in this case situation to secure their safety. So those who had fields, were spending their time on the wall, instead of tending the wheat, grapes, and oil crops. What developed as a result was two separate groups of people. Those who had food and resources – eg those who had slaves in reserve kept back from the wall to tend the fields, and those who were facing hunger in a few months because they had obeyed Nehemiah and put their focus on the wall. 

Those wealthy people who had food in reserve were making predatory loans to the people that didn’t. When those loans reached a certain threshold they were selling people, sometimes whole families to their enemies. At the same time Nehemiah is spending his money buying people back from their enemies. So it became a quick way to get paid. Dad sells David into slavery to the Persians, Gets his loan money back, and then Nehemiah purchases David back from the Persians at 40-50% over the amount they paid for David because they knew Nehemiah was a wealthy man, and he would do what he had to in order to bring his people back to Israel. Basically then the wealthy Israelites that were making these predatory loans were sort of cutting off their nose to spite their face. Probably if they had gone to Nehemiah he would have paid their debt rather than buy them back for a premium from their enemy and lose good workers in the mean time. So when all of these things that were going on came to light, Nehemiah gets angry. In short one commentator says it was a “Gotrocks family” situation. I didn’t know what that meant so I googled it. What I found was an article that says “In his 2005 shareholder letter, Warren Buffett envisioned a hypothetical family (the Gotrocks) who just happened to own all the companies in America. While each family member could have been content to simply collect their dividends, some of them hired “helpers” to assist them in outwitting other family members by trading companies with them. The other family members responded by hiring more expensive helpers with fancier titles. The cycle continued, and before they knew it, a substantial chunk of their collective income was going to the helpers. “. They were trading their income and people away to gain a form of security, and losing all three things. This made Nehemiah mad. 

I don’t know about you guys, but sometimes I get angry too. Anyone else ever been angry? Of course we all have. We had a situation not too long ago where a guy we had known for a while made a mistake, and instead of owning up to it, he tried to cover it up, and even asked for extra money for the tasks he had been hired to complete. 

All of this went down on the day dad had his heart surgery. I wanted to be at the hospital with him, but we had this situation going on at home, so I stayed home to babysit, and ensure this person kept up their side of the deal. I’d love to tell you that his goading didn’t make me angry, that I sat there and handled it like Christ. But I can’t because I definitely lost my temper. I didn’t curse at the man. My message was simply you promised A, B, and C, and if you want to be paid for your work, you’ll do A, B, and C. Which of course he did not like! He argued, and threatened, and swore a pile of lemons tasted like sweet lemonade, and I wouldn’t give him an inch. Well I guess I gave him about six inches. But you get my meaning here. I think I would have been better off reaching a compromise. Or directly calling him on his mistake. Or taking a breather to allow the situation to settle down. 

In any case, Nehemiah took a little wiser course. Vs 6 – He took counsel with himself. It doesn’t say he went around running people down to his friends. He took a minute to regain his composure, to collect his thoughts, and then he attacks it head on. Vs7 I brought charges against the nobles and the officials. I said to them, “You are exacting interest, each from his brother.” And I held a great assembly against them 8 and said to them, “We, as far as we are able, have bought back our Jewish brothers who have been sold to the nations, but you even sell your brothers that they may be sold to us!” They were silent and could not find a word to say. 9 So I said, “The thing that you are doing is not good. Ought you not to walk in the fear of our God to prevent the taunts of the nations our enemies?. 
His response to his countrymen who were sinning both against him, their people, and their God was to point them back to God, and remind them that the world is watching. I say this all the time, but its worth bringing up again. I have this mental picture of people marching blindfolded towards a cliff. We who believe in Christ can see that they are heading towards their doom, ought we not be running around removing blindfolds? Instead we sometimes sit on the sidelines and navel gaze arguing over things that won’t matter when we get to heaven one day. 

The SBC had their annual meeting here recently and one of the issues they talked about touched upon slavery. There is this group called the alt right, that essentially affirms white supremacy. It’s a relatively small group with relatively little influence as far as I can tell. Its not something I had ever heard of prior to the meeting. Its not something we see in the news regularly. Its not something that we encounter on a daily basis. But then I suppose were not black, and so it may be a thing that we simply cant see. Any way, there was a small group that was very inarticulately vocal about the evils of the alt right. They demanded in a letter written at the second grade level that the denomination move to affirm once again that we are against this form of evil. Because of the way it was written, and because of the tiny minority of people that are even aware of this thing, much less the number of people that are involved with it. It is evil, and I’m glad the resolution passed. But we spent ~24 hours talking about it, and what it meant, and what it said about the denomination, and on and on and on. Couldn’t we have better spent that time making much of Christ? Telling the lost they are wearing a blindfold and marching towards a cliff? I’m glad we got it right in the end. Our messy system works. Danny Akin the president of the seminary I attend says “Danny Akin: “We stand steadfastly against any form and every form against racism, bigotry, and racial supremacy no matter where that may come from and no matter who may express it. If we don’t we have no reason to expect the blessing of God.” 

Finally, Nehemiah gives one more important reason to live as he has suggested. One that is as true today as it was back then. He says in vs 9 basically that the nations around us are watching. What if one day you were to find out that some careless action on your part, witnessed by a lost friend was their excuse for not accepting Christ and as a result they spent eternity in hell? 

When I was at Trinity one of the papers I wrote was on obstacles to Muslims becoming Christians. One of the issues I brought out was that Muslims frequently say that if they had ever met a real Christian maybe they would be convinced. Making matters worse, their primary interaction in many places with Christians is the filth they see coming out of both Nashville and Hollywood. Perfect example of this is Brittany Spears. She’s fallen from prominence now, but back when she first started her career she frequently talked about the Lord. How she wanted to serve him through music and bring glory to his name. A few short years later she’s sleeping around, strutting around in provocative clothing in music videos where she makes sexually suggestive movements. Then all the scandals involving drugs, and alcohol or public indecency. At their peak I found out this week, that she was barred from attending parties by her friends, and other music superstars because of her constant inappropriate behavior. Yet for a period of years, she was perceived as an ambassador of Christ. When muslims pictured a Christian, they pictured this woman and her out of control life of sin. The Israelites were living this out on a day by day basis. Maybe not to the extreme that Britany does, but in their own way they were living in a form of depravity. These loans they were making barred the borrowers from the use of their land, or whatever the collateral was until the loan was repayed. Think about that for a moment. You’re a farmer, and your family is starving. You can take out a loan, but if you do, not only will you be charged as much as 40% interest on the loan, but you would not be allowed to use your farm as long as you owed money. Which would mean you are functionally homeless. Maybe with some money in your pocket to feed the kids… But eventually as the money ran out desperation made it look like selling your child to a slaver was a mercy. 

This wasn’t some foreign government that was inflicting this upon the Israelites, it was extreme opportunism and they were subjecting each other. It was a sign of their unbelief. Just as our actions can be a sign of our unbelief. 

If someone came to you and said hey let me tell you about my Jesus. Then stole your credit card. How would that make you feel about Jesus and Christians? What if they cheated on their wife, and were telling you about how Jesus had made them a better person. What if they were abusive of their children and telling you about Jesus love? What if they were telling you about the Holiness of God, while dropping curse words? Would that convince you? Or would that push you away? 

The world watches how you treat other people. Especially when they know you are a Christian. Are you living your life in such a way that what you do obscures Christ? I think that’s an easy trap to fall into. I think I may have with the guy who installed our drain field. Look over your life, and think about this for a minute. Are you treating others fairly in your financial dealings or, Are you saying you follow Christ with your lips, but failing to follow him with your actions? 

Ultimately this confrontation by Nehemiah called the people back to the Lord, away from abusing the people. Towards a more godly lifestyle. So in a moment here, when the praise team comes up to sing the final song, if you realize you have areas in your life that need work, then won’t you come? We have an alter here.  If you think you don’t need work, then that’s pride and a good thing to repent of as well. 



