Philippians 4:4-7

I’ve been thinking a lot about stress and anxiety this week. I don’t like to talk too much about my self, but last Sunday I had a 20 page paper due. This afternoon I had another paper due, and then next weekend was supposed to be the midterm. On top of that being a pastor, trying to sort out the churches response to coronavirus, figuring out how – if we have multiple months of having to meet online, how we will continue to pay bills. How to enable people to continue to give. Plus a hundred other things. Big and small. You know how life gets. Any way. The stress was getting to me at one point. I was talking to a pastor friend, and he recounted a story of what the Lord was doing in him a while back. He was In his senior year of seminary, and had been pastor of a liberal church for about six months. He sort of reminds me of Bob Leko. A bull in a china shop. He bulled his way towards better more biblical theology in the church. The pastoral committee had warned him in advance that he was going to have an uphill battle, that they were weak on the authority of scripture, weak on a lot of things that are important, critical issues of salvation. 

The church had about 800 people in it, and a little better than half wanted him gone. They wanted a pastor that believed in women preachers, they wanted one who was ok with homosexuality, they wanted one who taught that God was loving, and as long as everyone was sincere he’d ultimately take you into heaven. However what does the bible teach on those issues? What does scripture say about women pastors, and homosexuality, and most importantly that Jesus is the only way to God? 

He said during this six month period he got more anonymous mail than he has cumulatively for the rest of his life. Anonymous letters are never ones you want to get either. They are mostly people saying things they are too afraid to say to your face. Things that are meaner than they would otherwise say to your face. Any way. The church was growing. People were getting saved. Baptisms every few weeks. People are getting excited about Jesus, and reading their bibles. In otherwords lost people were invading their church, and upsetting their applecart. People absolutely hated him. 

So he preaches his heart out for six months. He’s writing his dissertation, He has a wife, and a couple of kids, he has four mouths to feed, and a car payment, and seminary payment, and on and on and on, and then all of a sudden things came to a head. In the weeks leading up to a business meeting, he walked in on a conversation about trying to rally the church to fire him. 

He said he was about broken. He poured his heart out into these people for six months, and now they wanted to fire him, when there was so much on the line. He said he left church that night and was driving home, and so lost in thought and in his own head that he wasn’t aware of something that was going on until he got out of his car at his house. Turns out he’d been being followed by a police officer for several miles and didn’t notice. The officer was pretty aggravated with him. Preacher don’t you know you ran two red lights, and continued driving at a high rate of speed for five miles without pulling over? Don’t you know what kind of trouble that can bring? I ought to have your car towed he was told. He took my friends information and went back to his car, and called his sergeant. When the sergeant heard the name, he told the deputy not to worry, because that preacher was in enough trouble already. They let him off without even a warning. He was under a lot of stress. Any of you relate to stress? Trying to balance work and family, or sometimes just family. Worrying about your family, and kids and parents and loved ones in the midst of the corona virus scare? There is a ton of things that can take root in your brain and overwhelm you with fear, and stress. For some of you its heartache, and longing. Some of you feel empty, and lonely. The medicine is the same. Its not smoking cigarettes, or vaping. Or drugs. Its not a relationship. Its not a cruise ship. Its not a vacation. Its Jesus. 

Were going to be in Philippians chapter 4 today, Philippians chapter 4. 

While you’re turning there, we will talk about our people group of the week. The Pasi of India. 

So my pastor friend got up early the next morning, and began to pray. He was a little upset with God as you could imagine. About 8am he prayed God if you’re never going to talk to me again, I need to hear from you right here right now. So he got his bible out, and a stack of note cards, and began reading through the psalms. Every psalm he read that felt like it applied he wrote down on his cards. He read psalms clear through, every word of every verse and filled up a stack of note cards. He felt a little better. The following day was Sunday, and he went to church, and preached. He said the stress was so bad that Sunday that he sweated through his shirt, and through his suit to the point he had white salt stains on the pits of his suit. His shirt was just drenched. They baptized 14 people that Sunday. And by the end of it, his hands are shaking. He feels like a dead man walking. Like he’s already been condemned and is walking towards his execution. He had all his bible verses in his pocket. But one that didn’t even make the cut, that didn’t make the list came bubbling up into his mind right there. It said “This I know, God is for me”. The rest of the verse says my enemies will turn away when I call for help. He didn’t know that till later, he just knew that in that moment he had a sense of peace that passed over him. He remembered that God was in control. There is nothing good that can happen to you that doesn’t have God’s hand in the middle of it, and there is nothing bad that can happen to you that God doesn’t limit in accordance with his will. There is nothing good or bad that happens to you, that is a surprise to God. Ok lets read. Philipians 4:4-7

Long story short, the next Sunday my friend lost 400 people. But otherwise it was a great week. 

Vs 1 rejoice in the lord always, and again I say rejoice. Repeating a thing is a way of adding weight. In many languages old and new, if you wanted to add weight, and force to a thing you repeat it. Kids do that in English today. If a kid says it was a bad bad bad bad bad day. Or a Good good bestest most awesome good day every, you know they are trying to add force, or add weight to what they are saying. The bible does this too. Paul’s not saying rejoice when you feel like it. He’s not saying when you get a moment, take a beat and rejoice. He’s pounding the pulpit, demanding you rejoice in the Lord. He had some things going on when he wrote this too. Phillipians is called a prison epistle. Do you know why its called a prison epistle? Because it was written in prison. In order to get to prison, he had to survive being shipwrecked. The roman soldiers wanted to put him to death, but God spared Paul. Ultimately they get to rome, and he’s imprisoned. Having almost died, only to be thrown in jail. In rome. Under Nero. Who remembers something about Emperor Nero that they can tell me? Used Christians to light the streets of rome? The crazy person who is believed to have set rome on fire, and fiddled while it burned, killing more people than they could count, all so his living room could be a little larger and more grand. Paul says Rejoice. Some that will have read this, would have seen their sons or daughters or husbands or wives impaled on a pole and light on fire to light the streets of rome, to them Paul says Rejoice. Has your loved one ever been set on fire to light the streets of your city? Praise God things that terrible don’t really happen any more. I wish it said more than that. There are days when its harder to choose to be happy, than to continue to be sad. Days when maybe you can’t choose to be happy. I heard it preached that Joy and Sorrow travel the same pathways in your brain, and its up to you to choose which ones you feel. You can choose to do nothing and stay down trodden, and stressed, and depressed. Or you can choose to rejoice in the Lord. 
I don’t know exactly what each and everyone of you are going through, do I? I can’t know it as intimately as you do. But what do I know? Number 1 God says to rejoice. Number two, I may not know how bad things are, but I know how Good god is! I know he has a plan for this. He has a purpose. He is working in you through this. He loves you. He is working in the people around you through this. Even when we cant see what God is doing we can KNOW this is what he’s working towards because God promises it. He Promises he will never leave us or forsake us. He promises he will provide for our needs. He promises that one day he will wipe ever tear from our eye, he promises he will be our father in our fatherless days. As believers he promises us a home in heaven with him paid for by his son. 

Because of him, we have hope, and we have a future. 

Some of you are going to stumble, that happens. Some of you will fall. Some of you will be lured by the empty promises of this world. Someone said smoking helps with stress. Smoking kills your body, is sinful against God, and only lasts a moment before the stress comes right back. Smoking and vaping is a temporary high. It’s a stumble, it’s a fall. Its depending on your self to meet your needs rather than depending on God. In that sense it’s a similar sin to drugs. Instead of finding your joy in the Lord, you try and fill that void with something that won’t last. The only joy that lasts is from the Lord. You don’t lose your salvation just because you smoke, or vape. But you do grieve God. Paul says shall we continue in sin that grace may abound may it never be. May it never be. 

Sorry, sidetracked a little bit there. Paul goes on to say in philipians vs 5 the lord is near. Be anxious for nothing. Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. 7And the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.

So he says prayer and supplication. Who wants to tell me what prayer is? 

Right. Talking to God. Supplication is might be a little more difficult to describe, can you guys define supplication for me?
So if you were a starving beggar, and youre kids were starving, and you found your way near the palace, and low and behold there is the king. You’d be throwing yourself on the ground, pleading, with everything you have for a morsel of bread so that your kids won’t die. That’s the picture of supplication. Pleading and begging God in prayer. Until you are willing to humble yourself like that in prayer, and beg for holiness, you wont make much progress. Until you are willing to make supplication before God for peace you’re not going to find much of it. In my experience when people are struggling with sin, they cant find real peace. Its part of the nature of a struggle. When people are allowing stress to get at them, they didn’t turn to Christ for help. They are trying to get there on their own, to get through it on their own. To struggle through it. How can you both be struggling and be at peace? You can’t. So rejoice in the Lord. Again, I say rejoice. 

In counseling classes they talk a lot about changing your internal dialog. If you’re depressed, you have to start telling your self happy things. Start rejoicing in the Lord. Dwell on the good things that God has done for you. Dwell on things like Ryker getting the medication he needs but that his family couldn’t afford. Dwell on things like living in America where we can worship freely. Dwell on his provision in your life. If you’re feeling down today, I want you to spend some time and find one thing that you can be thankful, that you can rejoice in the Lord for today. Tomorrow I want you to find a second one. Give it a month, and if you’re still depressed, its probably something medical. 

The other area that can drag a Christian down, is the company that they keep. Can you play in the mud without getting dirty? Likewise the Christian cant play with the world without being affected. If you run around with people who do drugs, you are more likely to do drugs. If you run around with alcoholics, and people who drink all the time you are more likely to develop a drinking problem. If you hang out in bars, you’re going to end up being like those you surround yourself with. Maybe there is some one here who needs to create some space between themselves and a bad influence because THEY ARE BEING AFFECTED NEGATIVELY AND DRAWN INTO SIN. 

If that’s you, you need to pray about making some space in that relationship. This is why scripture says a cord of three strands is not easily broken. You, and some other Christian friends, surrounding a non-Christian, is safe, you on your own surrounded by lost, will drag you down over time. Maybe its not you, maybe its your kids. Maybe you see your kids struggling because of the company they keep. 

Normally we close with the gospel. But I’m going to close with an opportunity to come to the alter and repent. Then before we close, I want to spend some time in prayer. Our denomination has called for every Baptist church to spend some time together in prayer this morning for those affected, and who will be affected by corona virus. The medical workers, our government, and our friends and loved ones who may be affected. We don’t know how bad this will be but we know how big our God is. And he is able.  