Were going to be in Proverbs chapter 13 this week pg _________ in the large print pew bibles. While you’re turning there I want to talk to you about generation gaps. I heard Paul Washer preach on this not too long ago. He mentioned that he had been talking to one of his friends another Baptist Preacher that had been telling him about this book. Before we go any further Paul Washer has his bachelors from a state university. He studied philosophy and logic formally. Then he went on to one of the six southern Baptist schools – southeasterns sister school southwestern in texas. Where he got a masters of Divinity. As part of getting his M.Div he studied logic, and philosophy once more (though at a higher level), and then 4 years of theology, and studying the bible. Needless to say the man has studied the bible a lot. After that he spent ten years on the missions field in Peru, and then started a missions organization to help send Peruvian missionaries around the world. He serves now in leadership of that, and as a preacher. Any way, his friend said hey I have this book I want you to read. So after a while, it finally came up on his list of books to read, and he began reading Skimming it. Despite his extensive studies in logic, philosophy and theology he was still having a hard time with it.  The logic was higher level, the theology was much deeper than most even theology texts go today. So the story goes he stopped to get a glass of water, and when he came back the book had flipped closed to the back cover, and there was a picture of several children and an old timey looking school marm. So he read the preface and found out this was a reprint of a book that was used to train puritan kids in primary school. 

He said he was shocked to find out that in the days of the puritans 7-12 year olds were studying the deep questions of scripture with higher level logic than what is being taught in seminary today. 

He said 7 year olds were being taught about impeccability vs peccability. Could Christ have sinned if he wanted to? That sort of deep esoteric stuff is what these little kids were studying, and it struck him just how great the generation gap is between the puritans. I asked google, and found out that we barely talk about the puritans these days compared to the end of the 1800s, and the beginning of the 1900s, the amount of time we spend studying and talking about the things the puritans had to say has dropped by over 700%. 

Now I don’t agree with everything the puritans had to say, but they said a lot of good things. One of the primary questions on the hearts and minds of the puritans was how the word of God applies to every facet of life. Things like that are worth thinking about and studying scripture to find answers to. 

I read in another place that the average child after school spends between 3 and 7 hours playing video games and/or watching television after school. By contrast, it was demanded that puritan children – once they could read – would spend at least three hours studying scripture each day. They level and ubiquity of theological education of the 1600s puritan child was as great, or greater according to washer than his own modern 21st century pastoral, seminary education. 

What we teach our seminarians today is less comprehensive than what we taught yesterdays 7-12 year olds. 

What does that mean for the average Christian then? How do you think you or I would measure up compared to the 7 year olds of a few hundred years ago? 
Before we open God’s word, I want to talk about one more thing, and then we will really get started. 

The decline of puritanism in our country correlates to something else, something not inherently evil it self, but something that at a certain point began unpinning education from the word of God. Namely the public school system. The public school system has been a good thing in many ways, more and more people have access to education than perhaps would have under different paradigms. It has leveled the playing field in a lot of ways, and I recognize that just because the rise of public school correlates to the decline of puritanism does not necessarily mean one caused the other. But I think it is important to note as public schools increased in prevalence, puritanism decreased. I think this is a symptom of the deeper problem. As a country we began to shift our focus from what God was telling us about him self, and the things found in his word to the things that man had figured out. We began to see the revelations we were able to learn through observation, and experimentation as being more important for kids to know. Public school is the mouth piece for the priorities of a people. Its not neccesarily good or bad on its own. But it very much reflects where we are as a nation, and when that’s a good thing, it’s a very good thing, and when its not, well you see where we are today. 

Just so you don’t think I hate science, and think that learning is bad, I’ve spent decades after high school perusing education. Some of which was in the sciences. I loved chemistry. My chemistry professor was one of my favorites. Even when we made mistakes, if we could explain why the mistake happened, and what we observed as a result of our mistakes he would still give us a good grade because we had learned! Case In point, the first lab, we had to capture hydrogen and oxygen, and stick lit matches into containers of each, and then at one point we were supposed to put one container of oxygen, over or under the container of hydrogen, I don’t remember which. If done right, when you stuck the match between the two open jars, it would extinguish itself lacking the proper stoichiometry. However, one kid did it the opposite way, and instead of the oxygen and hydrogen staying separate, they mixed, and when he stuck the match in between the jars the one on top exploded across the room into the wall. He jumped up and shouted YES! Whoever did that Just got an A, if you can tell me why it happened. 

Science is an important part of our lives, and it should be studied, but it needs to be kept in its proper perspective, and that is kneeling at the cross of Christ. Scripture is not a science text, but where it speaks of science it is the most authoritative source we have. Scripture refers to the earth as round thousands of years before Isaac Newton wrote a paper talking about his theory. In fact scripture said it was so, thousands of years before the earliest greek philosophers speculated that the earth was round. When scripture speaks on a subject it is authoritative. Sometimes were just not listening. 

Imagine what the world would be like If instead of playing fortnight for ten hours, our kids spent 10 hours studying the word of God. What would our next generation be like? Wouldn’t that be a worthy goal? Parents and grandparents, aunts, and uncles, it all starts with your example in the home. 

Lets read: Prov 13. A wise son hears his father’s instruction, but a scoffer does not listen to rebuke. 

I was watching Live PD last night, the last little bit of it. They had a deputy from Pasco on, and his k9 partner “Shep”. They were talking about a case where the deputy had pulled over a kid on a motorcycle who had been popping wheelies going down us 19. So the officer pulled the kid over, he looked like he was 13 or so. Pimply faced, voice cracking. The kid had built the motorcycle from parts that were going to be tossed out. He repaired them, he welded the frame together, and completely built this bike from scratch. But poppling wheelies on 19 is scary, and against the law, so the officer pulled him over and in the process of the stop found a little bit of pot in a baggie in the kids sock. The deputy said he had a choice at that point. He could charge the kid with felony possession, or he could order him to participate in a diversion program that involved community service and staying clean of drugs and alcohol. The deputy chose the diversion program, and made the kid call his mom and explain what he had been doing. 

Later in the show the deputy was asked how often the diversion program works, and he replied only about 1 in 10 kids follow through with completing the requirements. As a result the kids that fail end up with felony charges, and spending time in a detention center. 

He explained that kids just don’t think adults know what they are talking about. So when an adult or a cop tells them drugs are bad, they say in their heads you just don’t know, you don’t understand. I KNOW, I UNDERSTAND, and for me this is what is good, and they continue to go down the same paths that so many kids do, and end up strung out on drugs and alcohol. 

Its that attitude that “we” know better than our parents that is so troublesome. Its an attitude fed and fostered by our culture. When I was a kid we watched programs about good vs evil. Superman vs super villians. Autobots and optimus prime vs the decepticons. Batman and Robin, vs basically everyone. But today the cartoons show parents as being idiots, and kids being the wise worldly and knowledgeable ones. Kids are told parents just don’t understand, so you have to go out and try it for your self. Sneak out, go to that part, drink that, smoke that, try that, and see if it works for you. Because – and I hate this phrase “yolo”. Which means you only live once. 

So not only have we shifted away from listening to God’s word as our authoritative source, and towards the knowledge of man, but we’ve shifted away from listening to our elders. This is something that started back in the late 50s and early 60s. At that point in time the young people were deciding that drugs and sex were fun, and their parents clearly didn’t know anything about either. So we had the sexual revolution. Where to the greatest extent to that point in history we began to have generational gaps. The young people were convinced they knew more than their parents about everything and so decided that anything that they did would be better. This is memorialized in their music, their art, and even their politics. Remember the political protest music of the late 60s? The song that stands out in my mind is War by Edwin Starr – he says “war… Huh… Good gosh yall what is it good for? Absolutely nothing. Say it again! War aint nothing but a heart break, only good for the undertaker. 

Its interesting to me that he became a big investor in one of the companies that eventually became Lockheed martin. In his diary he wrote that war was very good for jobs and the economy. Saying he didn’t like the death and dismay side of war, but he sure liked the money it made him. 

There is so much GOOD in our passage this morning I had trouble picking out just a few things to talk about. I thought about talking about the verse that says spare the rod, spoil the child. Its easier sometimes to indulge our kids than to fight with them, to help them think and behave right. Or the verse that says the righteous are content, but the fools continue to pursue the lusts of their flesh… But ultimately felt like the Lord was leading us, and we had to close with vs 20. Can someone read that for me? Whoever walks with the wise becomes wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm. We ultimately become like those we spend time with. The influences we allow into our hearts and minds affect our hearts and minds over the long term. My mom says “garbage in garbage out” and I think that’s true. Worse than affecting your own life, the influences you allow in your life, and the control they have over your heart and mind will affect your kids, and how they see and interact with the world. 

How do you want them to be, and to think about these types of things? Because in order for them to see things different, in order to slow or stop this cultural slide we’ve been on for centuries, we are going to have to BE different, were going to have to THINK different, were going to have to LIVE different. Were going to have to return to the book the puritans loved so much, and we can do it the same way they lost it. Because it all starts with you. Be a strong Christian that loves and respects God and his word. Be one who loves his savior, and puts Christ first in his life. Raise strong smart kids who are tough enough to be independent from the world, but dependent upon Christ. Raise them to love God as much or more than you do. 

Murder among the puritans was all but unheard of. You know why? Bible says not to. Adultery? Almost completely unheard of… Why? Bible says not to. 

Not just because the bible says not to, but because of WHY the bible says not to. Because these things were sin. Because sin seperates us from God… 

Gospel. 

