Were going to be in psalm 34 this morning if you’ve brought your bible, and I hope you have. 

Psalm 34

While you’re turning there (people group). 

I heard a story this week told by an Iroquois woman from the turtle clan. It was a story about listening. She said “When I was a little bitty kiddy, about five, my Dad began a process … anytime somebody came and said something to us, my dad would say, "You remember what he said, honey girl?”  I would tell my father what the person said until I got so good at it that I could repeat verbatim even long presentations of what the person had said. And he did this all the time. Finally, one day there was this old gentleman, Richard Thompson. I still remember his name, he lived across the street.  And every time my Dad started to mow the lawn, there came Mr. Thompson. And so I would stand out there. Dad says, “You might come and listen to this man, honey girl.  He’s pretty interesting.”  And so I listened to him, and then my dad would say, “What did you hear him say?” And I would tell him. Well, eventually I was repeating all the stories he liked to share with my dad verbatim.  I knew them all by heart. And my Dad says, “You’re getting pretty good at that.  But did you hear his heart?"  And I thought, what?  So I went around for days with my ear to people's chest trying to hear their hearts. Finally my Dad created another learning situation for me by asking my mother to read an article from the newspaper.  He says “Well, I guess if you want to understand that article, you have to read between the lines." I thought, "Oh, read between the lines. Hear between the words." So the next time I listened to Mr. Thompson’s stories, I tried to listen between the words.  My Dad said, “I know you know his story, but did you hear his heart?” And I said, "Yes.  He is very lonely and comes and shares his memories with you again and again because he’s asking you to keep him company in his memories."

Isnt’ that a sweet story? Sometimes what is being said between the lines so to speek is important too. 

Our passage today is interesting in that regard. Hebrew forms of poetry have been studied quite extensively, and lots of books have been written about it. Our passage today contains one of those forms called an acrostic. 

In English we usually use a word, and have the first letter of the sentence be a part of the word. Like this acrostic poem I found for the word MERCY. Pay attention or you might miss it.  

My sins all forgiven through Jesus Christ,
Erased by His blood sacrificed.
Reward of God's compassion and pity,
Condemnation gone forever;
You, loving God, have set me free.

In Hebrew most of the acrostics that I’m aware of use the full hebew alphabet: Alef, Bet, Gimel, Dalet, Heh, Vav, Zayin, Khet, Tet, Yud, Kaf, Lamed, Mem, Nun, Samekh, Ayin, Peh, Tzadi(k), Qof, Resh, Shin, Tav. 22 letters in total. 

One of the interesting things about this particular acrostic, is that they skip one of the letters early on, and put it back in again at the end. This was their way of drawing attention to the verse. The last verse in this passage is the one that David is drawing our attention to. 

If we applied it to our English acrostic, it would be like spelling mercy Mrcye! Seeing it written out like that would be jarring, and draw our eye right away. Or it would be like seeing your name spelled wrong by the bank. OhnJ or regg, or ottieD or illieW or loriaG. 

Jaring. 

Its like he’s saying Pay attention – this is whats most important here. 

Were going to go ahead and start in vs 11. Lets read. 

Our passage starts with David announcing he knows the secret to long life. Our world longs for long life. We know that because in 2020.- the last year the data was available, globally we spent almost 10 trillion dollars on health care. People in the world are trying to extend their lives. Not just medicine though, there is a thing called the singularity – are you familiar with that term? The idea is that – and they project this will be possible by 2060, the idea is that we will be able to be functionally immortal by uploading the contents of our brain to a computer. They want to capture not just our thoughts but the essence of who we are. Our consciousness. They want it all up-loadable to the cloud. Much of our science is devoted in this direction. You’ve heard of chat gpt? Maybe one day they will have a willie gpt or gloria gpt. If the Lord tarrys maybe your great grandkids will be able to query a computer scan of your brain one day. Much of our science that isn’t directly involved in maintaining and extending life, is indirectly involved in that. Much of the space program. You’ve heard about Elon wanting to start a colony on mars and beyond? Because he’s concerned that life on earth is too fragile, and maybe one day something like an asteroid or some weapon man devises, or who knows, will destroy life on earth as we know it, and then what? If humans are only on earth, he suggests, then we could easily be wiped out, crushed under foot. 

Life is fragile, and the world knows it. That’s why we spend almost 20 percent of our inome on health care. That’s why we spend about a quarter of that on space exporation, and technology and so forth. 

We are fixated on it.  David says basically in vs 11 If you desire long life, then fear the Lord. 

He then begins to expand on what that looks like. What does it look like to fear the Lord? 

David says like this: keep your tongue from evil and do good, not evil. Vs 13-14. 

The apostle John says it this way: If you love me, you will obey my commandments. Jn 14:15 

Are we being obedient to God’s commandments? I feel like most people would answer this “kinda, but I could be doing better”. 

We all could be doing better right? That’s a fair statement. None of us are perfect. None of us get everything right. Were still fallen broken people. We still fall short every day,  And yet, Keep your tongue from evil, turn from evil and do good. 

There was a viral email going around a number of years ago, I looked for it and couldn’t find it, but it went something like this. 

I man was in bed saying his prayers, and he prayed “God thank you for helping me get through today so far. I havent cursed, or drank, or been angry. I have yet to look upon a woman im not married to with lust in my heart. I havent told a single lie. Lord with you’re help I feel like I’ve done pretty good. But God I’m just about to get out of bed and start my day, I’m going to need a lot more help. 

I think that email went viral because we could relate to it. Its easy to have been good, and have turned from evil when you’ve just woken up, and are still in bed. Its harder to make a lifestyle of that when youre driving on us 19 and someone cuts you off. 

Its easier to be Godly before you encounter the people of the world trying to drag you down, and yet that isn’t an excuse David gives us. If you want long life, if you love me, keep my commands. 

But its deeper than that isn’t it? Should we keep the commands, sure. But its not keeping the commands that saves us. I havent shared too many stories about my dog lately. But Joy is pretty good at one thing that I think applies here. If you were to take a piece of steak and put it on the ground, and tell her to leave it. She would. She initially looks at it with longing. She absolutely loves meat of any kind. And Butter. But she initially looks at that bit of food set before her, and then as though if continuing to look at it would cause the temptation to disobey to be too much, she would stop looking at the steak, and look steadily at my face. 

I think there is a lesson in that for us all. Always look to our master when things are hard. When things are tempting. When experiencing persecution like we saw in the movie a while back. When that rude guy cuts you off in traffic. Look to the face of our savior. Because its only then that we will have the strength to be obedient. Whether that’s to share the gospel with the scary people across the street, or to tithe. Or to avoid a specific temptation. Whatever the case the strength we need comes from the Lord. The discernment comes from the Lord. The desire to do the right thing comes from the Lord. Vs 19 says many are the aflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them.

There is freedom in Jesus. 

I love the next vs also, vs 20 says speaking of the righteous person that none of his bones will be broken. Read with me, it says:       20 He keeps all his bones; not one of them is broken. 

The commentators say that David had Jesus in view here. Its also mentioned in exodus, and another verse in Isaiah that Jesus wouldn’t have a single broken bone. Which is remarkable. On the cross one of the last things they did to a person who they were crucifying was to break his legs. You die a slow death of suffocation and exhaustion on the cross. They splinter the back, you lift your body up by the nails in your feet and hands. The authors of scripture considered what we call wrists to be a part of the hands. But theyd pull themselves up by the nail every time they needed to breathe. Then lower back down over the splintered back of that cross. Sort of like a cheese grater rips off flesh. Eventually you’re too exhausted and you just cant lift your self up any more. Then you suffocate. 

But to make really really sure a person was dead, once the show was over, they pretty much always broke the legs of the condemned. That ensured the person was dead, and not faking. The soldiers had a vested interest in that, if they were wrong and a criminal survived the crucifixion, then the soldier had to take that persons place at the next crucifixion. They were incredibly motivated. 

But when it came time to break the legs of Jesus, they could see he was dead. There was no chance he was faking, and so they didn’t need to break his legs. No bones were broken. 

This verse was written nearly 900 years before Christ was born. 

Finally, the last verse. None of those who take refuge in Jesus will be condemned. 

This is the crux of the long life David was talking about. 

Have you taken refuge in Jesus? 

Gospel. 


