Psalms 11
It strikes me that there is a lot going wrong in our world today. Seems to me more is wrong today than a few years ago. Taxes are up. Milk is up, Bread is up. I was scanning some of my grandmothers old recipies, many of which are just recipies she cut out of a newspaper. So it was kind of an interesting time capsul sort of experience. Seeing tbone steaks for 3.99 a lb. Ground beef for .50 cents a pound, or Milk a dollar a gallon kind of put inflation into perspective for me. Many of the recipies I only dated back to the 90s. So it hasn’t been that long since prices were reasonable. But more than just fiscal upsetness, there is a fundamental wrongness to the world around us. Wrong is celebrated as right. Intolerance is celebrated as tolerance. 

I saw on facebook an add for an upcoming program on amazon. See if you can figure out where its gone off the rails. In the beginning – the add said – God created adam and Lilith. But because Lilith didn’t want to be controlled by adam, she became the consort of satan and had a child. This new cartoon series is the story of that child. Satan gets top billing, he’s a good guy trying to fix heaven, but meanie God and the angels banished him for trying. They pitch satan as just a misunderstood victim of God. 

What a twisted message indeed. 

I know a guy at the school I attended. Hes actually a renoun public speaker now who speaks to large crowds about black issues. But back when I knew him, he made a very public statement saying that  all white people need to quit their jobs and make sure  black person takes their old job. That all white people need to burn the books that they have written, and instead support any other book, as long as it was written by a black person. White teachers need to quit, white school administrators need to step aside, white people with more than 20$ in the bank, he wants you to sign over your account to a black person. He says this is tolerant and right. Anything less than that is intolerant, wrong and racism. 

Or the so called chrislam center, also known by some as the churchoskagogue. Which was recently christened as “Abrahamic Family House“I first became aware of this because of a facebook meme that was going around, and I did a little googling, and found out the meme is a little disingenuous. It implies that the two things – islam and Christianity are being blended into a new third thing there. When in truth, the catholics at the one, and protestants at the other are being forced to compromise. When and how they can display a cross is regulated, but most egregious they are being limited in their discussion of how and when they are allowed to talk about Christ. How any real protestant, any real Christian could agree to the requirement that they not talk about Jesus in any kind of way that could result in someone converting to Christianity is beyond me. Their priority isnt’ God, its something else. They aren’t listening to God or reading his word, its something different. Its not of God. He shouldn’t call himself a pastor. Especially when the stated goal by the sunni muslim imam presiding over the mosque at the center is to have killed any of the Christians he can. Perhaps the Jews as well. Certainly any and every convert. 

OR the Fairfax county school board meeting held a while. Where a concerned parent was shouted down for exposing books that contain graphic child pornography in the school libraries because there are children present. Oh the irony. Its wrong to point out the gross wrong on the part of the school board of exposing children to child pornography because children are present, but its ok to expose those same children to child pornography in the library. 

Our world is so Wrong. 
Everything is upside down and backwards. 

I met what I thought was a woman one time, and the thing this person was most interested in telling me, was that she was actually a he biologically, and that his wife (the two considered themselves lesbians) was pregnant and they were expecting a baby. Things have gotten so backward that its becoming edgy to be a heterosexual couple now. Reminds me of a quote by Mark Driscoll a pastor in Washington DC who said “ You’re just a conformist, if you’re drunk and naked and driving around on a loud motorcycle smoking cigarettes and breaking commandments and getting pregnant out of wedlock. Everyone has done that, that’s so tired. If you really want to be a rebel, read your Bible, because no one is doing that!  That’s rebellion! That’s the only rebellion left!”
Our world is upside down and backwards. 

things are out of control. Things we thought were set in concrete – constitutional rights – are being trod upon. Kids – young kids – This was a startling statistic that I came across a while back. Kids were more likely to die from suicide during the pandemic than they were from any other source. And that was in the middle of the pandemic. Not to mention the wars and death all around the world. I spoke with someone whose family is in Ukraine while we were in Kentucky, and I asked her if her family was safe. She laughed at me, safe in a war? She said they are pretty far from the fighting, but no where in Ukraine is safe. 

Our world is messed up. Upside down, and backwards. 

And that’s where we pause and open our bibles up today, to psalms 11. I think that place of helplessness is right where David was when he wrote this psalm. Psalms by the way are just about in the middle of your bible. If you open it to about the middle, you should be in or near the book of psalms if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have. 

now you guys know me. You know I like to look into things. So I tried to look up the background for this psalm. But David doesn’t say in the psalm, and there were so many times that David was in mortal trouble. You may remember he was in the court of Saul, the King at the time for a while, and Saul tried to kill him. Throwing javelins at David. Getting angry and trying to Kill David was Saul’s deal, to the point where David had to flea into the wilderness for about a decade. Saul chased and tried to kill him a number of times both in the court and in the wilderness. But it also could have been when Absolom his son staged a coup. David as King himself, had to abandon his capital city Jerusalem, and flea for his life into the area above the Jordan river. 

Every time the bible reports that David ran, it turned out to have been a wise move. Except maybe this time wherever he chose to stay put seems to have been a wise choice. 

Could you imagine what that was like? The king learns your name, demands you play music for him, and then tries to kill you. Then later hunts you for a decade across the kingdom. 

Kind of reminds me of that movie franchise “Bourne”. Ever seen it? Its fairly violent. But the point of the show is the full weight of the US government is pressing down on this man, and he doesn’t know why, he just has to run. 

Or Worse, Absolom – davids son. Imagine your son, getting you fired and then trying to have you killed. Hunting you. 

Whatever the circumstances David chose to stay put, and that expresses a lot of faith in God. Faith not fear is important. 

I like the reference to the foundation also. When the foundations are being destroyed, what can the righteous do? 

There was a song by a band I loved in high school – have you guys ever heard of audio adrenaline? Any way, the song was “what if I stumble”. At the end of which the singer for Audio Adrenaline started talking about buildings and their foundations. He said you can’t move a foundation without destroying the building, if you were to pick this building were in right now up by the foundation, it would collapse. You can move the building and put it on a new foundation, but a building has to have a foundation to be secure. 

and I’m paraphrasing here, but he said we know what our foundation is don’t we? Who can tell me what our foundation is? As Christians, and as a nation? As a nation our most important document is our constitution. Everything else is built upon that, likewise as Christians everything is built upon the word of God, which is it self built upon Christ. The old testament looks forward to Christ, the gospels talk about christs life, and the rest of the books point back to Christ. Christ is the beginning middle and end of scripture. He is our foundation. 

So when things are scary, when your kids are at risk, when you are at risk, when your husband dies, and your farm hand can’t help you any more. When your boss is a jerk, when your marriage is struggling, when the whole world seems against you. What do you do? Or as David put it in vs 3 - When the foundations are being destroyed, what can the righteous do? 

re read vs 4-7. 

I love that David points straight to God. Everything seems Crazy but God is right where he needs to be. Hes there watching, ready to interceded when needed. Ready to rain down fiery coals, and scorching winds. Ready to be our ever present help in times of trouble. He’s ready to be our fortress and our strength. He’s ready to shield us under his wing, like a mother bird protecting her babies. 

Funny, not all birds do that, did you know that? I saw a video of a guinea hen the other day, she was trying to “protect” her babies from a snake, so what does she do? She uses her wings to fling her babies at the snake. One or two are eaten, but she is safe, and so are the rest of her babies. Which leads me to the conclusion that I am glad my mother was not a guinea hen. Lol I’m glad God is not a guinea hen. God shields us, from the firey arrows of the evil one. Rather than throwing us to the proverbial wolves.  Amen. 

Proverbs 15:3 says “The eyes of the Lord are in every place, keeping watch on the evil and the good.” He sees us, he KNOWS whats going on. He knows how we have been slighted, and harmed. He knows who did it. He knows how much of it you can handle too. 

Or perhaps even scarier Hebrews 4:13 - And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account.

He knows you. Fully and deeply. Every inner most thought. Every secret hidden action. Everything you’ve ever done, or even thought about he knows! 

Some people think that means you get to sin all you want. But in truth God’s holiness should encourage us towards holiness as well. He knows you. The real you. Every bit of it. And inspite of all that he chooses to love you anyway. What a blessing. 

So even when the world is upside down. Even when everything is in chaos, God is still where he should be, doing what he should eb doing. 

And more than that he’s bigger than any problem you might encounter. I used to sing a veggie tales song called God is bigger than the boogie man to one of my nephews when he was little. For a few months, Every bad wind was a tornado, and every tornado he felt had targeted him and would get him. 

Listen folks. We can’t save ourselves. We’ve talked about that. We don’t desire holiness enough to try and achieve it on our own. We can’t maintain our salvation on our own. We are described as being like a corpse. What can a corpse really do on its own? I used to say a corpse can only stink on its own, but that’s not true. A corpse stinks because of outside forces (bacteria) helping it. So we can’t even do that right without help. Lets be generous and say our ability is the amount of water that can fit on the head of a tiny sewing needle. If that’s us, by comparison, God’s ability Is more water than can flow over the Niagara falls since the beginning of time. Or consider with me the grand canyon. Billions of cubic feet of space in the grand canyon. The mighty Colorado river that flows through it, if you were some how able to plug up the bottom end of the canyon, so that the water from the Colorado wouldn’t escape, it would take hundreds of years to fill that mighty canyon, and yet, that is still an inadequate expression of just how big and capable God really is. I read that there are 321 million cubic miles of water on earth. 70 percent of the earth roughly is covered in water, and yet that is still an inadequate description. Scripture takes a stab at it, in saying the heavens are God’s footstool. Feet are relatively small compared to a human, a big human might be 6 feet, and have feet that are a foot long. Yet we’ve found stars that are so big it would take us over a thousand years to travel around them just once. Just once, and yet that’s God’s footstool. That holds just a small aspect of God. 

We can’t even stink right on our own, and yet God could balance the whole milky way galaxy on the tip of his finger. 

A guy named GJ Whitlow wrote an article in the 50s, where he stated that if there were more than three dimensions in the universe, math, and chemistry by extension wouldn’t work the way we understand it today, and so would cause all life on earth to go extinct. 

Likewise, if the earth were just a little closer to the son, we would all burn to death, and a little further and sunny florida would be the artic trundra, either option would result in all life on earth ending. 

A man named William lane Craig wrote “the values of the various forces of nature appear to be fine-tuned for the existence of intelligent life. The world is conditioned principally by the values of the fundamental constants a (the fine structure constant, or electromagnetic interaction), mn/me (proton to electron mass ratio, aG (gravitation), aw (the weak force), and as (the strong force). When one mentally assigns different values to these constants or forces, one discovers that in fact the number of observable universes, that is to say, universes capable of supporting intelligent life, is very small. Just a slight variation in any one of these values would render life impossible.”

This is true of the earths magnetic field as well. If it were stronger, guess what would happen? Death. If it were weaker? Death. 

These scientific facts point inevitably in my mind to their being a creator. We find a Ford truck at the beach, and we don’t assume that it used to be a fish, we assume it had been constructed, carefully, and over time by an intelligent being at a ford manufacturing plant. 

These evidences indicate a powerful being exists, and wanted us to have a chance at life too, and so he created a world wherein we could exist, and grow. 

Mankind has spent thousands of years trying to figure out the systems that God established, and spoke into existence in under a week. Millions and billions of us have spent thousands of years trying to explore the fullness of God’s creation, and at the end of the day, we still have hardly scratched the surface. 70% of the worlds surface is ocean, and we’ve explored just a mere 5%. 

Who then is better capable of taking care of us? Regardless of how hard things seem. God knows you. He KNOWS what you can handle. He KNOWS what you really need. And He knows whats best for us in the long term. 

So when things are hard, cling to your foundation. Cling to Jesus. Cling to God’s word like a shield. 

I think the poet Longfellow said it best when he wrote the follow dark Christmas song. He’s writing of the civil war, but you can almost hear todays headlines in it, at least I can. The story behind the poem is heart breaking, hes a recent widower, holding the body of his son, who had been shot a few days before wondering if he would live or die. Wondering if our country would live or die. Wondering if there was any hope in the midst of his hopeless situation, he wrote the following: 
I heard the bells on Christmas Day
Their old, familiar carols play,
and wild and sweet
The words repeat
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
And thought how, as the day had come,
The belfries of all Christendom
Had rolled along
The unbroken song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
Till ringing, singing on its way,
The world revolved from night to day,
A voice, a chime,
A chant sublime
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
Then from each black, accursed mouth
The cannon thundered in the South,
And with the sound
The carols drowned
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
It was as if an earthquake rent
The hearth-stones of a continent,
And made forlorn
The households born
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
And in despair I bowed my head;
“There is no peace on earth,” I said;
“For hate is strong,
And mocks the song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!”
Then pealed the bells more loud and deep:
“God is not dead, nor doth He sleep;
The Wrong shall fail,The Right prevail,
With peace on earth, good-will to men.”
In the end Jesus will prevail. If your hope is in an elephant or donkey, its misplaced. Joe Biden is NOT jesus, and neither is Donald Trump. Regardless of who wins in November this is something that’s been true since the beginning of time. True since Adam and Eve walked in the Garden, True since Noahs flood. True when Abraham walked the earth. True when Jesus walked the earth, true every day since, true today, and true forever, that regardless of who is president, Christ is King. There is no authority greater. Our trust, and hope needs to be in Christ alone. “Our hope is built on nothing less than Jesus love and righteousness. Not in horses and chariots. Not in missles, and guns. Not in rockets and bombs. Not in presidents. Not in congress, or the house or the senate. Not in governor, not in the mayor. Not in city or county commissioners. 

Only in Jesus. Do you know him today?


