We brushed up against the subject of Judgement a few weeks ago, and were going to dig into it a bit more today. Its not a popular thing to preach on, and its not a message our culture wants to hear, but rarely do we like to take our medicine. God’s judgement is at the heart of the gospel. God’s judgement is a blessing. God’s judgement is more fair than we deserve. There is no salvation without judgement. God’s judgement is excellent, God’s judgement is terrifying, and God’s judgement should never be trivialized. Were going to be in Psalms 75 today if you’ve brought your bible, and I hope you have. While youre turning there, lets talk about our unreached people group of the week. The ______

Lets read God’s word, and then lets talk to the author. 

We make judgements all the time, its part of living. Do we like this brand or that brand better? That’s a judgement. This car or that car? Judgement is required. Ever raised a child? Did they do something you liked or disliked? That is judgement. Did you punish them? Judgement. We are a people of judgements. We just don’t like the word Judgment. It makes us uncomfortable. I think it is tied into post modernity. With the rise of post modernism in the late 1900s things that were absolutes, things that were concrete set in stone, things you could take to the bank became question marks. Right and wrong became maybe and probably. There are people out there now that are trying to make the most heinous things in human estimation normal. Murder in some instances has become normative, has become normal. You think your baby is going to make your life harder, you’re probably right, but that’s a reason to abstain from sex, not a reason to commit murder, and so we’ve blurred these lines between whats right and what isn’t. What culture says is “judge not”, but what culture means, is whats right for me, may be wrong for you, and that has to be ok. It doesn’t have to be ok. Because we have an objective standard of truth. We have a God, that judges. A God that by his very nature establishes what is right, and what is wrong, and by His very nature, he judges fairly right from wrong. He judges our every action… He judges our every thought. Think about that for a moment. Think about all the thoughts you have ever had. Not just the good ones, but the bad ones too. Jesus, God knows those thoughts. He knows what you think, he knows every sinful thought you’ve ever had, all the ones you remember AND all the ones you’ve forgotten. God knows. Every deep dark secret in your closest, God knows. He was there, he heard you. He Remembers. His perfect justice flows out of his perfect holiness. He has never done anything unholy, and by his nature is not now, nor will he ever do anything unholy. The book of 1 peter says “be Holy for I am holy”. God is the epitome of holiness and calls us to nothing less. It is black and white. There 6 no room for equivocation, or to only be holy when you feel like it. God says be holy as he is holy. He is holy all the time, and unceasingly. The nearly 700 old testament laws – in fact the whole book of Leviticus tells us of the holiness of God. Even the Jews who made it their job to follow the law had a hard time keeping the whole of the law. But the law is based on the very nature of God, and so it is a reflection of who he is. A reflection of his holiness. I think there is a comfort in things being black or white. Right or wrong holy or vulgar. There is comfort in that. I’m sure you could dredge up something that lives in the grey area. But most things are not in the grey area. Getting drunk? Black and white. Doing drugs? Black and white. Going to church? Black and white. You get the idea. You may think recreational drugs or being drunk and holiness are two separate things, but there are several times They are linked together in scripture. 1 peter for instance. Lets turn there. 1 peter 1:13 and following. 

While you’re turning there, I’ll point out that vs 13 starts out with a therefore. Any time you see therefore, you gotta figure out what its therefore. So I’ll explain a little bit. Peter is writing, and in the previous verses he is talking about trials of various kinds, talking about how are faith is tested and proved with fire, and that this testing and proving of our faith brings praise and Glory to God. Why? Because we can’t do it on our own. The major point of the whole section is we have been born again, we have a living hope, its tested, and proved by trials, and so as a result of having real faith, therefore, vs 13 and following. Therefore because we have been saved – we are to prepare for action. Alright are we there? Vs 13-the end of the chapter. 

Soberminded – we have talked about this before, about what it means to be sober minded, but its worth discussing again. In the Greek, the word for self control means “‘be sober’; in the NT only fig. = be free fr. every form of mental and spiritual ‘drunkenness’, fr. excess, passion, rashness, confusion, etc. be well-balanced, self-controlled” People argue recreational pot is fine because pot doesn’t make you drunk like alcohol makes you drunk. In the Greek the word says every for of mental and spiritual drunkenness. Doesn’t mean get a little drunk. Or get a little high. It means don’t get drunk. Don’t get high. But that’s not all. It goes on to include ones passions, and rashness, and excesses, and even confusion. It wants us to be well balanced, and self controlled. This isn’t talking about medicine that a doctor has prescribed in proper course. But it is talking about those that doctor shop to get too much of a presecription. Some people can have a glass of wine, or a beer with their supper, and let it be just one, its not talking about that. Its talking about being drunk. Unless you smoke so much pot that you’ve built up a tolerance to it, a little pot gets you high, and you’re no longer sober-minded. If you smoke so much pot that it takes a lot for you to feel high, and pot is required for you to be normal, then you’re not sober minded either. How about getting mad when someone cuts you off? This one stings. I’ll be driving and someone cuts me off and steps on the brakes. I get a little upset sometimes when people drive badly, and put my life or the life of my family at risk. Sometimes this causes me to get angrier than it should, that’s not being sober minded. Anger can lead to rash actions and statements. If youre speaking rashly, you’re not being sober minded. Are you? Are you being self controlled? Or are we being “conformed to the passions of our former ignorance” when we do those things. Judge yourself first. Because one day the judgement comes from God. Will God consider you to be sober minded? Vs 17 says conduct yourself with fear during your exile. Peter I think meant the literal time period where the early church was being scattered around the world after the stoning of Stephen. But I think it applies to us today also – we are here for a time, were practicing for eternity. Are you getting it right? It matters because our salvation was bought with the precious blood of Christ. The very son of God! He traded something precious and holy for something sinful and vulgar. He bought with something most precious, something like me. Like you. Something God says can’t live up to his standards, and that even our best efforts are filthy rags.
How much love would that take? See a lowly beggar on the street, dressed in rags, covered in lice, and his own filth and be so moved with compassion that you took him in, cleaned him up, gave him new clothes, a bedroom in your home, your last name, and let your son die for him. 

This is the God who judges us. 

There is an issue brushed up against in vs 21 that we need to talk about. It’s a controversial subject in our denomination right now, and even beyond. There are good godly people that Love God, and Love and are careful with God’s word on both sides. However, let me ask you this. According to vs 21 – which is talking about Jesus. according to vs 21, who is it that saves man? Who is it that raised us from the dead? Who brought us into his fathers house? Jesus. The controversial part is what is the extent of our role in that. 21 seems to be saying that we needed his help to believe in him, we needed his help to be raised from the dead, we needed his help for faith and hope. What part of that did we do? What did jonathan Edwards say? What did Edwards say we bring to the table of our salvation? Just the sin that made it necessary. Heres the controversy, some put mans efforts as being of co-equal importance to God’s. Sort of a we are in this together, partners in our salvation sort of thinking. What did peter write of our role in vs 21? Look at the language – who is the one doing the actions? Who is the one receiving the actions? God is the mover and we are the moved. There are other scriptures we could talk about here. This is a rabbit trail, and I don’t want to spend too much time here, But I’d argue based on this and Romans, and well, much of the new testament, that while we should “Confess with our mouth”, its not the confession that saves us. I believe from scripture that by the time someone gets to the point of confessing with their mouth, also called the sinners prayer, God has already saved them. The confessing with our mouth is an inevitable response to God’s work of salvation in our souls. Should people pray the sinners prayer? Absolutely yes. Should we share the gospel? Absolutely yes. Absolutely confess with your mouth, we are commanded to confess with our mouth the Lord Jesus Christ and believe in our hearts that God raised him from the dead. But this is our natural response to seeing who God truly is. You can’t even see the shadow of God’s glory pass by, and come away unchanged as Moses found out. Scripture is pretty clear on this. No one comes to the son, unless the father calls him. No one can be saved without God doing the work. No one. In fact Romans 9:16 the context being God’s compassion and salvation says “It does not, therefore, depend on human desire or effort, but on God’s mercy.”

It is this judgement from God, this righteous, fair, holy judgement from God that enables salvation. God’s holiness and justice demand judgement. But his love and compassion provide a way out. His love and compassion set us free, and give us hope, and faith. His love and compassion all the way to that old cross on which my savior suffered and died. Down  where for cleansing from sin I cried. There to my heart was his blood applied Glory to his name! I love the third verse of that hymn, it goes “There Jesus saves me, and Keeps me clean” In truth we can’t even keep our selves clean after salvation without God’s help. We should strive for that to be the case. We are already forgiven. We are becoming increasingly free, increasingly holy, but we won’t be fully free or fully holy until one day we are standing in the presence of God. Not because we think the things we do will save us, but because we are grateful for all the things God, and Jesus have done for us. This is why we do works. This is why we should judge our selves. This is why we should spent time in the word, and praying, and in fellowship with other believers, and in evangelism, and in worship. Those things draw us closer in our relationship to God, and make us a better reflections of God. All of which feeds into vs 22. Having purified your souls by obedience to the truth for a sincere and brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart. How do you purify your soul? Well you need help. You draw closer to God, he draws closer to you. The more you read his word, and practice the other spiritual disciplines the more it washes you, and the closer you become to God. The more pure you become. Partly because the bible informs our mind, and that knowledge helps us rightly judge ourselves. Then we must be obedient to that truth. I think judging ourselves starts with seeing ourselves how God sees us. We spend a lot of time on how much we resemble a wretched beggar, and we do. How unrighteous we are, and there is good cause for that. But its balanced out with God’s love for us too. Even though we killed his son, he loved us enough that its ok. Even though we made a career out of sinning according to romans 3, and the only payment we deserve is death, He loved us enough to let his beloved son pour out his life blood for us. Even though we cant follow the rules enough to ever hope to save ourselves, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. The righteous for the unrighteous. Even though we can’t maintain our salvation on our own, God loves us enough to come to earth, to be man incarnate, to set aside part of his deity, in suffering and shame. To live a perfect life, and then allowed us to put him to death on a cross. The funny thing about a the real God is he doesn’t stay dead. Three days later Jesus rose from the grave having defeated sin and death and hell and satan, he arose victorious. In so doing he unshackled us from our sin. He took upon and consumed the punishment we deserved for our sin. He adopted us into his family, and made us heirs to his throne. 

But it all starts with God doing a work in your heart, and your response. Scripture says jn 3:16. 

Have you come to a point where you’ve come to believe in Jesus, where you’ve done what romans 10:9 says? Confessed with your mouth the Lord Jesus Christ, and believed in your heart that God has raised him from the dead?  If not, don’t let another day go by. Come talk to me. 

