I heard something interesting this week from preacher Steven Davey. He talked about this little town called “bizby” Arizona. Things were challenging back then shortly before the first world war. Conditions in this mining town were really hard and deteriorating. The main mine had dried up, and so the only place they had found to continue their illegal mine was on the face of this rock. It was really dangerous, and many died trying to mine this rock. Things got so bad they decided to group together and organize into a union. When the owner of the mine caught word that they were organizing he promised to fire, and deport out of the state anyone who even breathed a word about union. During the midst of this a newspaper wrote an article and said the miners were caught between the rock and a hard place. They had to choose between risking their lives for their job, and not having enough money for food. Ultimately 3000 people went on strike, were forced onto trains with whatever they had on, and were forcibly shipped out to new Mexico. It’s a difficult time, when you’re stuck between a rock and a hard place. People try to fake their way through it. Some try to ignore it. But the reality is we are weak, sinful creatures, that can really hurt when we go through things like this. The pressures can get to us. Difficulties abound; what else can we do when were stuck between a rock and a hardplace. 

martin Luther was inspired by our passage today when he penned the words “a mighty fortress is our God, a bulwark never failing”. What encouragement we can draw from this too. Remember what Luther was going through? He was a catholic monk, fighting corruption that went clear to the top of the catholic church. He didn’t want to start a new church, he wanted to repair the damage done to the catholic church, and yet the catholic church wouldn’t have it. The Pope excommunicated him, the emperor declared him an outlaw and a heretic, and yet he stood frim. One of his compatiots Philip Melancthon who is just as important as Luther in a lot of ways, yet less known, would follow luther around and write down what luther said so he could study it in depth later recorded on a number of occasions that Luther would say “Philip, lets sing psalms 46”, and they would do so. 

In fact lets read psalms 46. While you’re turning there, our people of the week are the Moghal of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Nepal. After WW2 the governments of the world did a thing we now call the partitioning. If it had come through pasco county, it could mean that My immediate family is on one side of the partition in one country, and yet dottie and willie, the church, my grandparents, cousins, and friends could be on the other side of the partition. They partitioned kind of willie nillie along geographic features rather than by existing tribal leadership structures. So the Moghal ended up being split into several different countries. They however have a high standing in any of the countries they ended up in. This prestige has followed them. They believe they are strong enough, smart enough, resilient and good enuogh to get to heaven even if Islam which they nominally follow is false. They need their confidence in self shaken so they are pressed to a point where they have to look up and acknowledge they need God’s help. There are more than 1.2 million of them without a single known believer in Jesus Christ. Who will pray for the Moghal?
Lets read Psalms 46. 

Right off the bat I saw something I had to look up.  The word Refuge in Hebrew means: Source of safety, protection, and covering. One you turn to for assistance. Protective covering from the weather/elements, a safe place. The Greek terms they translate the Hebrew into can also mean: expectation, hope, help, support, and trust. 

I think that was the perfect word to use there. The verse says “God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Between the word shelter, and the rest of the verse, I feel like the definition is being repeated pretty well. In the Hebrew and Greek, the word means help, protection, safety, support, trust, and covering. 

I was thinking about it this week in terms of storms. When I was a teenager I played football for the local police athletic league. This one night its storming badly. Thunder, lightning, and beating down on us.  In the distance in the sky you can see little fingers pointing across the sky, rolling, turbulently and beginning to work their way from sky to earth. Lightning popped all around us. The concessions stand offered a little shelter but not much. So our coach in his infinite brilliance, decides to have us drag the bleachers over under the tall, scrawny pine tree for shelter. Then ordered us to sit there. 

I was a kid. I didn’t think anything about it. I just assumed that I should do what the adults had told us to. Refuge: Source of safety, protection, and covering. One you turn to for assistance. Protective covering from the weather/elements, a safe place. The Greek terms they translate the Hebrew into can also mean: expectation, hope, help, support, and trust. I think that was the perfect word to use there. The verse says “God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Between the word shelter, and the rest of the verse, I feel like the definition is being repeated pretty well. In the Hebrew and Greek, the word means help, protection, safety, support, trust, and covering. I was thinking about it this week in terms of storms. When I was a teenager I played football for the local police athletic league. This one night its storming badly. Thunder, lightning, and beating down on us. In the distance in the sky you can see little fingers pointing across the sky, rolling, turbulently and beginning to work their way from sky to earth. Lightning popped all around us. The concessions stand offered a little shelter but not much. So our coach in his infinite brilliance, decides to have us drag the bleachers over under the tall, scrawny pine tree for shelter. Then ordered us to sit there. I was a kid. I didn’t think anything about it. I just assumed that I should do what the adults had told us to. However when my mother got there to pick me up, she was absolutely livid. All those kids sitting out there in the middle of a field, on a giant metal bleacher (a lightning rod) under a giant pine tree - also a lightning rod, soaking wet with tornadoes. I was definitely glad she came early to pick me up that night, and she may have saved kids lives. Because our coach wasn’t smart enough to have the kids seek a trustworthy shelter. instead of putting us out of harms way, he had us sit directly in the path of harm. Where God’s shelter is trustworthy, this shelter of my coach was anything but. Where God offers us shelter from the storm, my coach had made us sit on a lightning rod and in so doing put us in line to catch the worst parts of the storm. What safety did this coach offer us? What protection? What shelter? What hope? Where did he do anything on this night that we could trust? We kids were between a rock and a hardplace.

Aren’t you glad my coach isn’ God? Its probably a good thing I’m not God either. Everyone except God will eventually let you down. Which is what makes his shelter so great. 

His shelter is a thing we can trust. It will hold up during the storm – the hurricane, the cancer, the infection, the global pandemic. Its strong enough to weather any storm that this world and our has to offer. 

Its sort of like the situation in Santiago chile. A friend of mine was down there a while back speaking at a conference, and all of a sudden an earthquake hit, and my friend said the buildings started swaying along with the earth quakes and my friend was terrified. Can you imagine what that would be like? Here in florida when we go through a hurricane, when your home starts swaying, that’s a bad thing. Your home doesn’t have much time left when it sways. And yet, in Santiago these buildings were behaving as designed. They had built in mechanisms to allow for sway so that though the earth may move and the mountains fall, the buildings will continue to be able to stand. When that rock and that hard place comes, they may bend a little but they won’t break. These new buildings are a very effective safe place in Santiago. They are a shelter from the storm, a fortress from invading enemies. In fact it was this psalm that Martin luther drew inspiration from when he penned the old favorite “a mighty fortress is our God”. This psalm was one of Luthers favorites and gave him peace in the midst of all the trauma and trajedy of the reformation. But his foundation was built upon the Lord, and so when the earth rumbled, and shook. When the church cast him aside, when his whole world went upside down, because he had found his refuge in God, because he knew his life was devoted to God and not to the church, he was able to stand. 

If you were to look back across your life, and tally up the hours you spent on various things, what would your life be devoted to? Where is your foundation? Is God your refuge and strength? What will happen to you when the difficulties of life arise? If your foundation is the Lord, if your faith and hope is in the Lord when the earth shakes you’ll be fine. If your hope is built on anything else when the hard things in life come, your foundation will crumble. 

I’m reminded of Jesus parable about the house built on the sand vs the house built on the rock. When the waves came only one house remained. One was built on Christ, and the other was built on the most secure foundation this world can offer, and at the end of the day the only house that remained was the one built on Jesus Christ. 

In fact we are commanded at the end of the passage to be still and KNOW he is God. It strikes me that this is a command towards an intimate relationship. The old testament is full of references to a husband and wife coming to “know” one another. This Hebrew word for know is that same word. If you think it only means in some carnal sexual way, you’ve sold it short. The Hebrew word here “ya’da” means to know fully. To know every aspect and element of. But it also means to learn. Those of you who have been married very long know that “knowing” your partner is a process that never really stops. You continue dating each other, you continue learning them as they adapt and grow, you are at once the biggest expert on your partner, and their primary student. You must learn them to know them. 

Fortunately for us, God never changes, but we do. As we change, and our perspective changes we have the opportunity to know God more deeply, and more fully. I’m reminded of the facebook meme that was going around a while back that showed two people standing there arguing over top of the drawing of the number 6. One person kept saying no it’s a 6, and the other insisted no it’s a 9. Depending on where you stand you see different things. We went to grandfather mountain a while back, and from the top of the mile high bridge it seems like you can see forever. The valleys, and mountain peaks are absolutely beautiful. But take a photo of that same scenic vista and it somehow falls flat. As you grow in the Lord, as you learn more about the Lord, as your faith deepens, God allows you to see more of himself. He allows you to be more like him, and as a Christian you have a fortress we can run into and be safely hidden away inside of. We have protection from all the craziness of life. 

We have a shelter in the storm. A good shelter. 

Though wars and nations may rage, though mountains be cast down into the sea. Though cancer diagnosis may come, and bodies grow old and frail, though cars break, and viruses abound. Though the worst things you can imagine may happen, what do we know? “      11 The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress. Selah 
Is there any that can overcome our God? Any circumstance? Any individual? Any virus so bad our Lord is suddenly not in control? 

Be still. KNOW he is God. 

Gospel.