Were going to be in psalms 96 this morning if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have, psalms 96. 

Its another psalm that talks at length about God. In fact, I had an interesting conversation about God this week, I saw a video about the word YahWeh, that was saying that properly pronounced yah weh is like a breath in and a breath out. So that even those that hate God the most with their first breath, and with their last and every breath in between are worshipping God. 

Turns out, I couldn’t find anything to support that. There is some confusion about how it should be pronounced. But I think the video was just wishful thinking. It’s a nice thought, but I couldn’t find support for it in scripture. But it did lead me to do a lot of research into the word YahWeh, and since its used a ton in our passage today I think it would benefit all of us to hear about that particular name of God. 

Its first used in genesis 4, talking about the birth of Seth, and afterwards it says at that time people began to call on the name of the Lord, or the name of Yahweh. Its considered by the jews after the second temple period to be so holy that it shouldn’t be spoken rashly. Yet they knew how to pronounce it, and it was apparently pretty broadly in use before that. When God was asked what his name is, in exodus he tells moses its Yhwh. Yahweh. Want to learn a 10$ word? In seminary and bible college they call the name of God Yahweh the Tetragrammaton. This is basically just a long way of saying “Four Letters”. Tetra means 4, and gramma means letters. Thus we have the Tetragrammaton. The four letter word that is so important we can just call it the four letter word, and everyone will know what is meant. 

If you were to look up YahWeh in a Hebrew to English dictionary, which I have done in the past, and again this week, You’d see that the word he chose for his name means basically “I will cause to be what I will cause to be”.  Which is fitting for a creator God. The make and sustainer of all that is. Everything we know has proceeded from God the father. Jesus and the Holy Spirit are co-eternal with him. Having always been, they will always be. 

One of the groups that are responsible for us having copies of the biblical manuscripts today – the masoretes, whenever they would write the name of God, before they put pen to paper for Yahweh, they would get up, go through a ritual cleansing process, and then return, write the name of God, and then go back and repeat the cleansing process. 

Imagine that when we read our passage today. Every time you see the word Lord in there today, the underlying Hebrew is Yahweh, and whomever was responsible for copying this chapter would have to go through a ritual each time before and after the name was written. 

I’m thankful we had a group of people like them that took their job so seriously. So that today we have tens of thousands of copies of the originals, and all of them only have a handful of differences. 

In general as you read your bible, if you find the word LORD all caps, but the letters are shorter than normal, the underlying hebrew word is Yahweh. 

Some translations use the word “Jehovah” instead. But each and every time, they had to stop, purify, write, and then purify again. 

It kind of puts us as a culture to shame today doesn’t it? Can’t hardly walk through Walmart without hearing a chorus of people using the Lords name in vain. I mean, I think every kid has gone through a period where they repeated the words our culture uses improperly.. for a time. But we need to help them mature past that. Its something we had to deal with, with my nieces.  I don’t remember doing that as a Kid, but ask my parents, I’m sure I did, and they had to help me mature past that. Point is The Lords name is something worthy of respect.

Ok, lets read our passage. 

Ps 96
11 times! 22 purification rituals for the poor priest that copied this chapter. 

Any way, I digress. The first three verses go together well, most of the time when we think of Worship, what do we think of? Singing? Instruments? Hymnals maybe? The whole book of psalms perhaps? 

It strikes me that sharing the gospel is a form of worship. See the progression there? Sing a new song, Sing all the earth. Bless the name of the Lord, and tell of his salvation, declare his glory to the nations. 

A full expression of worship involves sharing the gospel. There is a reflection of acts 1:8 there too, did you catch that? Who remembers acts 1:8? As a reminder it says: 8 But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you; and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.”

It sort of builds, Jerusalem was their home town, judea and samaria was their region, and then the ends of the earth. 

In our passage, it says to tell of his salvation – which seems like an indicator to do it right now where you are, and then to the ends of the earth!

And that is out of an overflow of worship to God. If all were doing is singing, we are missing out on the fullness of worship. While we are talking about worship, we should talk about singing songs that reflect right doctrine. For a variety of reasons in our world today most of our music is made by young people who haven’t had any theological training. 

Back in the day, preachers were expected to write and preach six times in a week, teach a bible study, and then in their free time, after tending to the orphans and widows, they would write a few hymns that their church would sing. Sacred music, or worship music was the epitome of the musical arts. But we’ve lost that. Now its talented kids, without any training that produce most of our music. A good deal of which is quite good. But not all of it. I heard one the other day that said heaven wouldn’t be heaven without us, and that God wouldn’t want heaven without us. Made my jaw drop. So often, and so much worship is me me me me me centered. Or another by hillsong, that is intended to be sung for corporate worship, that they sing at their church for corporate worship goes like this: 
I don't want to be on my phone but I can't be alone
Welcome to the modern way
Trying to be somebody I'm not but it's not what I want
Tell me there's another way

It goes on like this. I kept hoping it would point to Jesus as the better way, but it never did. It didn’t even mention Jesus. How is a song meant to worship Jesus if it doesn’t even point to Christ a little bit? 

Just as bad are the Jesus is my boyfriend songs. There are so many songs out there that without changing a word could be sung to a boyfriend just as easily as to God. 
 
I was googling for bad worship songs this week leading up to this sermon, I searched for Jesus is my boyfriend worship, and bad theology in worship, and heretical worship. Much of what turned up was “well I just don’t like the level of syncopation in this song” or “the metaphors aren’t consistent throughout, even when I googled “Heretical music”. Sir I don’t think that word means what you think it means. 

Heresy is not just any minor theological difference. Heresy is reserved for serious issues that might keep someone from coming to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Many of the lists that I saw were milk toast reasons at best. Soggy and with little substance. 

But I think the main, and I’m about to use the H word which I don’t like to use. I don’t like to accuse anyone of heresy, unless they well and truly deserve it. 

I think the main Heresy that is plaguing worship music is this idea that the Holy Spirits job is to make us feel a certain way when we sing. Its an easy trap to fall into. Lots of people do. Whole denominations have centered their church service around the idea of user experience. They call it seeker sensitive. 

Seeker Sensitive folks raise the concern rightly that we should be thinking about how some things look when someone whose never been to church walks through our doors. I mean, imagine having never been in church before, and you walk in a few minutes late and the worship team is singing something like “washed in the blood”. Which contains deep and beautiful theological truths, that make sense when you understand them in context. But apart from that, you’d have parents running for the door looking for their children before they too get washed in the blood. I love the song. But it needs introduced and explained for new people. 

However, when its all about the user experience, when they push things to a point where God the holy spirits primary job is to make us feel tingly on a Sunday morning, we’ve cheapened God to the point where we are worshipping something other than God. 

IF the whole point isn’t to point to Christ, and rather to make us feel this way or that – then we are persuing an emotional high just like an alcoholic or drug addict. 

At the end of the day worship isn’t about us. We don’t have to love the meter or rhyme. We don’t have to feel butterflies in our stomach. We don’t have to have an emotional high. We have to worship God as he really is. As the bible says he is. 

This gave rise to a thing in certain presbyterian and reformed circles called the regulative principle of worship, where they literally only sing word for word passages from scripture. Which I think is cool in the sense that all of their worship is accurate. But at the cost of freedom of expression. God created us as creative beings, and wants us to use our creativity to worship him accurately. 

Consider Cain and Able in genesis 4. Cain was a fruit and veggie farmer, able raised animals. God expected animals. Able brought a wonderful gift, and even more than was commanded. Able ignored God’s desire and command, and brought the fruit of the ground. Probably a big pile of veggies. I heard a preacher joke one time that obviously Cain brought God Okra, and that’s why God was so offended. I hate okra, and I laughed way harder than I should have at that. But whatever it was, it wasn’t what God asked for. It was probably easier for Cain to get veggies, than it was to trade veggies to able for the proper sacrifice. Maybe the veggies were offered out of a lack of belief in God. Maybe Cain figured God’s not real any way, why should I bother? Why should I do what God wants when I can do what I want instead. 

We know how that story ended with Cain being marked, and cast out of their society. 

There is another one, in Leviticus 10, 

1 Now Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer and put fire in it and laid incense on it and offered unauthorized fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. 2 And fire came out from before the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord.

These were sons of Aaron, the high priest. They should know better. But one of two things happened. Either they let the fire go out, which is possible. Rabinical tradition indicates they got drunk. OR that they just decided they didn’t want to get the coals from the alter. Either way they got their coals from somewhere else, and while it was fire they wanted, they didn’t get the fire they expected. God cares about how he is worshipped. Worship matters. We need to care less about how worship makes us feel and more about how God expects to be worshipped. We aren’t worshipping ourselves. We are worshipping God. We aren’t here to sing self help songs. We are here to glorify the king of Kings and Lord of Lords. Yahweh himself. The one who created everything from nothing. The one whose hands shaped the earth as we read last week. The one in whom’s hands the grand canyon sits, and the depths of the ocean. The one who in six days created everything we’ve spent ten thousand years trying to understand. The one whose footstool is the heavens above. People we haven’t even fully explored the depths of the ocean, and even the vast amount of universe we can observe with our telescopes is a but a drop of water in the ocean compared to whats out there. Even if we fully understood everything about earth, and we don’t, but even if we did, there are two trillion star systems in the observable part of the universe. That’s just the parts we can see, and based on what we can see, they estimate that there could be as many as two trillion times two trillion stars out there. That’s not even counting all the planets. They estimate that there are on average ten planets that circle each star. Some have less, and some we have observed as having well more than 100. An article in Forbes indicated there are more planets out there that don’t circle stars yet than do. All of this God had the power to speak into existence in 6 days. All of our best and brightest have spent the majority of their lives trying to understand a single drop in a vast ocean of what God did those six days, and even that task remains far from finished. 

We serve an awesome God. 

How concerned was our God with user experience when Aarons sons were disobedient in worship? 

Its merciful that God didn’t burn up Aaron too. He apparently didn’t convey the gravity and seriousness with which sacrifices should be approached to his sons. He missed something in their training, and usually the things we miss in training our children are areas where we are ourselves weak. 

God takes worship seriously, and so when His word incorporates evangelism right in there with worship, I think we should take him seriously. 

He very seldom opens the sky and pours down literal fire to consume us when we fail. But that kind of wrath was poured out on Christ, on the cross for us. Jesus took the full cup of God’s wrath, and drank it down, and declared with his dying breath, it is finished. 

I knew of a guy who was running his mouth about a church in a way that led to its collapse. Within the year, the guy had mouth cancer. Was it a punishment from God? Were the two things related? I don’t know.  I do know that God cares deeply how we worship him. 

Are you worshipping God through evangelism? Through missions? Part of the money that comes into this church, gets sent on to the southern Baptist convention, and some of that money gets split up between the north American missions board, and the international missions board, and supports young people persuing seminary education, and so forth. 

So in a small way, supporting the church financially is participating in evangelism. But we shouldn’t allow that to stop us from sharing the gospel. From declaring it to the nations. One of the beautiful things about where we live, and when we live, is that the nations are coming to us. I read the other day that about 42% of the people that live in tampa are from somewhere else. Asia, Latin America, Russia, the middle east. You can share the gospel with people that come from countries where the gospel is illegal in our own back yard. Muslims for instance. In Tampa, I couldn’t find the statistics for Hudson, but in tampa, in 2000, there were 10,000 middle eastern muslims. In 2010, there were 36000. I couldn’t find the statistics for 2020 or 2023, but if it nearly quadrupled mostly from immigration from 2000 to 2010, what do you think its done in the next 13 years? And Praise the Lord for it. If the church won’t go to the missions field, God can make the missions field come to the church. 

In seminary I had a friend who was teaching English as a second language to a group of adults from North Korea. North Korea, you or I couldn’t go there if we tried. But here she is as a 20 year old girl, teaching English to them, using the word of God. 

God has blessed us by giving us the opportunity to take the gospel to the ends of the earth, by going out our front door. Even to people from some of the most closed off countries, God has allowed them to be here in our back yard where we can share the gospel with them.

I had a chance to share the gospel a few years ago with a man from Iran. An imam. Whom I only met because I had sheep for sale. I talked to him for five or six hours. Told him about Jesus. Prayed with him for his Kids. He didn’t accept Christ, but he wept when we prayed for his kids. 

Evangelism is a part of the full expression of worship. It flows naturally from remembering what God has done for us. From singing accurate songs about God, to God. 

When I was in high school I went to a conference called DCLA in Washington DC. It was a mixture of worship, and good preaching for several days. I absolutely loved it. One of the two times I’ve been, one of the preachers talked about how what God does in our life overflows out of us. He put a cup under a faucet and held it there as the cup slowly filled. He talked about the water being gratitude for things God’s done for us in our life. Gratitude for things like we talked about last week. For sparing our homes in the storm. For our children. For the ways in which he’s blessed us. Gratitude for even being born in this country. Gratitude for the opportunities he has provided us. But most importantly gratitude for our salvation. As you’d expect it didn’t take long for the cup to fill, and when it was full he kept the water running, and the cup over flowed. Water went everywhere, including into the other cups around us. That’s evangelism. Its an overflow of our gratitude to God for what he’s done for us. Its an expression of our gratitude to God for our salvation. It’s a part of worship. Probably the single most neglected part of worship in the church today. 

I asked you before, are you sharing the gospel, but now I ask this instead. Are you fully and properly worshipping God? 

Worship matter to God.
And all of that starts with the gospel. 

