Our passage today is going to be psalms 24. It been quoted in a number of popular worship songs, so you might find it familiar. In fact I googled it, in the last twenty years or so, there have been nearly 200 worship songs written about this passage. 

From third days King of glory which says: “Who is this King of glory that pursues me with His love And haunts me with each hearing of His softly spoken words My conscience, a reminder of forgiveness that I need Who is this King of glory who offers it to me”. 

To Chris Tomlin’s Give us clean hands. In fact, lets read some of that one: 

Lyrics
… We bow our hearts, we bend our knees
Oh Spirit come make us humble
We turn our eyes from evil things
Oh Lord we cast down our idols
… Oh God let us be a generation that seeks
Who seeks Your face, oh God of Jacob
Oh God let us be a generation that seeks
Who seeks Your face, oh God of Jacob
… We bow our hearts, we bend our knees
Oh Spirit come make us humble
We turn our eyes from evil things
Oh Lord we cast down our idols
… Give us clean hands and give us pure hearts
Let us not lift our souls to another
Give us clean hands, oh God and give us pure hearts
Let us not lift our souls to another

It’s a song about doing what we need to do, to make our lives right before God. I can appreciate that. Not looking at evil things, Casting down Idols. Approaching the throne of grace in humility and placing the best of what we have at the feet of Jesus in worship. 

I think youll find our psalm today in a similar vein. God cares about how he’s worshipped. 

Before we read, I want to ask you, and I don’t want you to tell me. But I want you to write it down, and keep it. There should be pens around, men if you don’t have one, ask a woman with a purse, she’s probably prepared for that. But heres what I want you to write down. 

God I’ll do anything you ask except – and if there is anything you wouldn’t do write that there also. I’ll do anything you ask, but I won’t go to the missions field. I know people who’ve said that. 

God I’ll do anything you ask, but don’t expect me to tithe. God I’ll do anything you ask except take off that mask, or put down that Lysol, I’ll do anything you ask except trust you with my health. Whatever it is that would cause you hesitation, I want you to write that down. 

Lets read the book, and then talk to the author. 

Psalm 24

Pray

It strikes me that there is only one person that fits the bill right from go. Who can ascend the hill of the Lord? In the ancient world, there were usually qualifications to enter important places. Remember I talked about the tribal village last Sunday? Go to the chiefs home and knock on the door when you’re not supposed to, and maybe you’ll end up being put to death. Sacred places where this way too. 

Who could enter the holy of holies? Who besides dottie knows? she’s been writing a book that covers a lot of the festivals, and sacrifices, and so forth of Israel. Only the high priest, and only once a year on a specific day to offer the blood of sacrifice and incense. Only on yom kippor. 

Yom Kippor of course means atonement. Only on the day of attonement once a year could the high priest enter the holy of holies. Anyone else would die. And even then, they would tie a rope around the priests foot, and put a bell on him, so he made a little noise. If he quit making bell noises, or they heard a loud thump, they would know he’d done something wrong, and had been killed, and they would drag him out by the rope, and elect a new high priest. 

There were requirements to enter the sacred places. 

Whose hands are clean? What does it mean to have clean hands. Or Dirty hands, does anyone know? It immediately made me think of the saying “he has blood on his hands” eg that one had some sort of guilt. He’s associated somehow with wrong doing, if he has dirty hands. So of course you guys know me, I looked it up, and in the Hebrew that’s exactly whats being said. Clean hands means guiltless, unpunished, clean, clear and innocent. Literally you could translate this as “guiltless and innocent hands”. Hands that haven’t done wrong. The one with clean hands, is the one that is not guilty of sin. 

Heavy stuff. You want to go to heaven and be with God? Gotta have clean hands. Idolatry is mentioned immediately after. David writes “who does not lift his soul to what is fale, or wear deceitfully”. 

It strikes me that we have so many idols in our society. We talked about this a bit on Thursday night. If you want to follow Jesus, you have to follow Jesus. In our book that we have been reading, in the week before last’s chapter, the missionaries son dies. You can still feel his grief as you read the things he wrote. You ask your self all the what if’s what if he had’t been in Africa and hadn’t had malaria 20 times, maybe then his lungs wouldn’t have given out. Maybe if they had been back in Kentucky, in Louisville, his son would have had better medical care. Maybe maybe maybe, what if, what if, what if. 

Its easy.. well easier to trust God with yourself. Its Much MUCH more difficult to trust God with the ones you love. As part of the preparations for the missions field, I went to this thing called race week. They put us through scenario training and testing, where they had engineered a situation where despite our best efforts we were going to fail as a team. They wanted to watch us squirm, while they had a team of psychologists watching us, and writing about us. Each psychologist wrote a paper on us, which was combined into one smaller paper at the end and presented to us as sort of a crystal clear mirror about who you are, and where you are both strong and weak. 

Its incredibly awkward. 

This one session in particular, they kidnapped one of the team members, and delivered a fake bloody thumb to our door, attached to a ransom note. 200,000 dollars, or outyourselves as cia agents (Which we were absolutely not), or we continue delivering pieces of him to you every hour till he’s dead. 

Up till that point I’d had to come to grips with the fact that I might die. I was prepared for that. God wants me, he can take me whenever he’s ready. I’m good with that. If our enemy makes me suffer a bit first, well I’m pretty tough, and when my strength fails, I can lean into Jesus. 

But I hadn’t fully thought through what it would be like to watch a friend, or loved one have their fingers cut off, or whatever else might happen. Someone you love being tortured and nothing you can do about it. 

Parents, some of you have been through horrible things where you’ve watched your kids struggle and suffer, but if you haven’t, imagine what that would be like with me for a moment. TO see your precious child’s fingers cut off, and delivered to you bloody in a ziplock. 

It’s a shock to the system. 

It was meant to be. Would you be able to follow Jesus knowing that he was going to make you watch your child die? Your wife? These are deep things, things we are meant to love, and be bonded to for our lives, and yet they can slip into the position of being an idol. 

Because when we follow Jesus, anything we would put before Jesus is an idol right? Anything we tell Jesus “Anything but that Lord” that’s an idol and that’s something you’ll need to pray about, and work at fixing within your own heart. Jesus I’ll follow you, but I won’t Trust you with my children on the missions field. 

Jesus I trust you, but not with my health, I trust masks, or shots, or Lysol, or whatever more. 

Jesus I trust you, but not with my singleness. I’ve seen some of that lately on facebook. People desperate for God to provide them with their life partner, but they are unwilling to look at church. Unwilling to seek God about it. So they keep going to the same kennels, and finding the same dirty dogs, which inevitably leads to heartbreak, and pain. We have to trust God with that. 

Its so hard sometimes to trust God for certain things. I had a situation a while back where I was worried about the safety of some children, to the point where I was having a hard time sleeping imagining the ways the situation they were in could be causing them harm. Because that situation had caused them harm in the past. But at the end of the day, there was no choice of mine anywhere in there to be found. Their safety was outside of my control. Their safety was in the hands of God. So I understand parents, the difficulty in that. The pain built into that. I don’t ask you to turn that idol over to God naively. I’ve seen and felt the pain of it. I like to think I’ve smashed that idol, that I’m not “lifting my soul” to quote David, to anything other than God. 
But I suspect this will be one that comes back when my guard is down. Something I’ll have to process through from different angles over and over until one day I’m standing before God in heaven. But this isn’t a video game where you have a handful of chances to get it right, this is a life or death struggle against sin, and idolatry. You can’t just turn your Nintendo off and back on, and start over at the beginning. You’ve got one chance to get it right. “One life twill soon be past” says the preacher C.T. Studd – “only whats done for Christ will last”

IF there is anything in your life that you would put before God its an idol. 

So Give us clean hands, give us pure hearts – let us not life our souls to another. Finally, do not swear deceitfully. 

Or put another way, integrity. Being deceitful is a lack of integrity isn’t it? The oxford English language dictionary says integrity is the state of being whole and undivided. Of being upstanding, and morally upright. Being Honest. 

So in a sense all of verse 4 is about integrity. Having clean hands is about having integrity in our inner and outer life. Integrity where people can see, and even harder integrity where people can’t see. Integrity in our thought life. Some of us lack integrity in the way we live our lives now, makes you wonder what their thought life is like, if that is the kind of thing that leaks out. Having integrity in our heart, and where we lift our heart has to do with worship. With having integrity in worship. Not worshipping things other than god. Not allowing things other than God to creep in the way between us and our willingness to worship God. And finally integrity with our dealings with people. With the things we say, and the way we live our lives being morally upright. Whole. Undivided. Fully dedicated to God. 

Strikes me that all together those areas are a good beginning of a description of righteousness. Righteousness is the quality of being right before God. Based on God’s standard, as measured by the Holiness of God. 

Scripture says Isaiah 64:6 our righteousness is as filthy rags. John Piper writes It is true—gloriously true—that none of God's people, before or after the cross, would be accepted by an immaculately holy and perfect God if the perfect righteousness of Christ were not imputed to us. But with Christ, we have a hope. Not just a hope in eternity, which we do. Not just hope of avoiding hell, but a hope that we can produce righteousness in a way that pleases God. 

I think the long term desire to do what pleases God and avoid what displeases him, AND actively taking steps to achieve that - is a mark of true and real salvation in that same persons life. 

So who shall ascend that holy hill vs 3? The one who has fully submitted his heart to God. The one who is whole, and morally upright. The one who has ripped idols out of their heart, and smashed them to the ground. Even the painful ones. Those who can ascend that holy hill, is one that has been bought and purchased by Jesus Christ. 


Then we can enter the gates of God, and encounter the King of Glory in his splendor. Then we can have true peace. True security. True hope. 

Inside those gates is the only real security our children will have. At the end of the day, is there any place safer than the Hand of God for our children? For our loved ones? Is there any place better than God’s care for whatever that thing is you wrote down? That potential idol. 

All of that starts with the gospel. 

