Psalms 100


We are going to be in psalms 100 this morning if you’ve rbought your bibles, and I hope you have Psalms 100. 

While youre turning there I want to discuss the organization of the psalm, its structure, and childrens rhymes. 

Do you remember when you were little, and kids of the opposite gender had cooties? I remember when someone told me about cooties, I was full of questions. What are cooties, how did amanda get them? Can the doctor fix them? Ryan who was a year older, and explaining these things to me said there no cure, but there I can protect you “circle circle dot dot now you’ve got a cooties shot”. Silly little things like that stick with us right? 

Its based around a meter that makes sense to us in our language, and has proved to be something we easily remember in our language as a result. 

Nursery rhymes are in a similar vein, they make sense in our language, and they stick with us. 

Or the song “it’s a small world after all, it’s a small world afterall” sticks with us. Its an ear wig they call it. A pneumonic. Oh that we would give kids scriptures in pneumonic form to help them remember things. 

Not always, but frequently in the old testament, the structure of a psalm tells us something about what the author is trying to express. 

This passage has sort of a one two punch, exaltation, exhortation. Worship, and Knowledge. Both of which are weaved throughout. I think there are a few reasons for this. Its firstly a pneumonic. Its designed to help people remember what to do, what to say, what to know. People many of whom didn’t have copies of their own scriptures, and so when they went to church, hearing things might be their only exposure to scripture. Plus it makes it easier to transmit, when a passage is built into a pneumonic device. These things are all throughout the old testament. Cycles of Sin, grace, punishment, and right living are throughout the old testament to help us remember that we need grace for our sins, and that punishments from God lead to right living. This passage too is built around a pneumonic device. Exalt, know, exalt, know, exalt know. A God that didn’t care how he was worshipped wouldn’t worry about putting stuff like this into his word. But he knows us, he knows we need help, and so he gives us things ordered in a way to help us remember. 

lets read our passage, and you’ll see what I mean. Its listed as five verses in our bibles, but as we know the numbers are things we added, rather than things that God added, so they are many made suggestions, not infallible God things. So despite there being 5 verses, if it were a song, and the psalms are songs, it would be a song with 4 verses. My ESV bible shows this, but not all bibles can or do because of space. 

But I digress. If the Hebrew had guided the insertion of verses, it would have combined vs 1 and 2, into a single verse and then it would have lined up with the Hebrew meter and made the first metrical verse. 

Lets read it. 

The first verse of the song is a exalt verse. Shout for the lord, Worship the Lord with Gladness, Come before him with Joyful Songs. 

The second verse, is an exort verse, its giving us knowledge right? Exortation leads to knowledge. It says “know the Lord is God, He made us, and we are his. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture. 

But then it goes right back into exalt: enter his gates with thanksgiving, his courts with praise. Give thanks to him, and praise his name. 

Then vs 4 of the song goes back to exort language, helping us to know that the Lord is Good, his love endures for ever, his faithfulness continues through all the generations. 

See the one two punch? Put that to some catchy music, and you’ll remember it through the week. Pronounce it in the right meter, and you’ll remember it. Hah. I heard someone say something about a pocket full of posies the other day, and the childrens rhyme “ring around the rosie” came flooding back, which is of course all about the black death. Infected people had rosie rings around their arms, and the smell was so bad they went around with pockets full of flowers – posies – in a vain two fold hope to drive back the stench, and in so doing drive away the infection. They thought the two things were related, and in driving back the smell perhaps they could overcome the illness. 

We have encoded so many usesless things into pneumonics that we teach our kids, but why aren’t we doing that with scripture like the forebearers of our faith have done? 

Sure we have Jesus loves me, and Jesus loves the little children. Both of which we have tought our children from a young age. But there are so many deep biblical truths we could encode into meter and teach them. 

And I don’t mean merely “God is bigger than the boogie man”. 

Why not put music to the words of scripture in catchy ways and teach that to our kids? Not just surface level truth, but the deep truths as well. Any way, I think the words of this psalm should find their way into the deep crevices of our heart, and become part of our prayer life. Even if you can’t say things like “I shout for Joy” or if you don’t have gladness in your heart during worship. Maybe your heart is heavy, and too weary to sing joyfully. 

Even so. We can ask God to help us regain our Joy so we can worship with Gladness. So we can come before him with Joyful songs, so we desire to Shout for Joy to the Lord. 

When we struggle to do that, I think there are a few reasons. 

Could be medical. My doctor has been changing my blood sugar medicine lately, and it sometimes leaves me grumpier than I normally would be. There are times when God wants us to eat and take a nap. In fact, there is a story in the old testament, where God sends an angel to Elijah and tells him to eat and take a nap before he goes to his meeting with God. Maybe Elijah had blood sugar issues too. I love those betty white commercials. Big tough football players getting a little grumpy turning into betty white until they have a snack. Sometimes we need to have a nap, and a snack before we can meet with God. 

But I think most of the time, the problem is we are so consumed with the size of our problems we forget about the size of the God we worship. 

If Peter had done that right from the start when he walked on water, it would have been a different story all together. The story of how we came to only have 11 disciples, or perhaps another story of a man being swallowed by a big fish. Or another parting of the sea story. Imagine that? Peter steps out, and sank to his neck, so Jesus calmed the storm, and slowly lowered the water to the seafloor so Peter could walk back to shore on dry land. 

God can do anything he chooses to, there is no miracle too big for God. 

When we are discouraged, and downcast, its usually because we are too focused on ourselves. So changing our perspective to thinking about God is a great way to put our problems in perspective. Or said differently “Know that the Lord is God”. Our lives are so busy, and so full of things that keep our focus from where it should be. Don’t let business and the detritus of life steal your focus from God. From His Word. From His work. 

Our passage goes on to say for we are his. More specifically, our passage says “it is he that made us, and we are his”. 

I think our society has a kind of knee jerk reaction to the idea of being a possession. Our own terrible history with slavery shapes our thinking. But our own failures are not God’s. We own our pets, Some are our partners, some are beloved companions, but in general we don’t treat them as we once did slaves. We tend to their health, and their needs, and even their wants. 

We are different than that, but not completely. For us its more like a good parent child relationship. We tend to our kids, feed them when they can’t feed themselves, and nurse them when they are sick. We teach them to do this, or not do that. We protect them when they are vulnerable. Ideally We lead them, and guide them, and mold them into something more than they are to start with. I heard someone once say that kids are like a coloring book. Born with lines in place, but their childhood – how they are raised fills in the colors and shapes the quality of the piece. God’s like that for us. Because we are his, he made us. 

We are like his sheep scripture says. 

I have sheep, so I’m going to take a stab at that. People in those societies know their animals, and their animals know them. Scripture says my sheep hear my voice, and they know me. 

I have one that watches the front door of the house. As soon as I go outside, she starts calling to me. Her notice, alerts the other sheep, and then they notice, and they all start calling to me. They draw comfort from my presence, because most of the time my presence means they get the food they like. My presence also means security. They have seen me run off or subdue predators a number of time.  If they are sick, my presence helps them to feel better. Sure sometimes I have to poke them where they hurt, or spray them with something that stings, or give them a bad tasting medicine, but when they have been treated, they recover more easily. 

I care for, and tend to my sheep. They live longer as a result. I have a ram right now that’s 13 years old. 12 is on the high side of average, 13 is quite old. In the wild, most breeds of sheep are endangered, and tend to be killed, or pushed out by younger animals after they reach their peak at about 5 years old. They don’t sit around wishing for food, they are vaccinated against common illnesses, and their wounds are bound and other needs attended to. It’s a better life, than left alone in the wilderness. Sheep around the world are a treasured possession. In fact in Senegal the poor senegaleese that make less than a dollar a day save and save and save their whole life to purchase a single sheep called a ladoum. Each Ladoum sheep can cost as much or more than a house here in the usa. Treasured indeed. Treated like part of the family. Like God does for us. 

The next verse is another exalt section. Enter his gates with thanksgiving, and his courts with praise. Give thanks to God and Praise his name. 

You know we don’t really have an appreciation for the level of access God gives to us. Here in our country, if you want to meet the president badly enough you can. Each of us has experiences with local politicians, Bilirakis, or whomever represents us in the state or federal government. 

Hah. I met the girl that was representing Hudson In the state house a few years back. I had just come out of the polling place, and there was a kind of cute, but way too young blonde girl standing there with a sign for the rep I had just voted for. So I told her “good luck, I hope your candidate wins”. She responded by pointing at her sign and saying “uh…. That’s mee”. I laughed, she laughed. I left. But the point is we can run into our leaders. We can make appointments with them. We can drive to the whitehouse, and encounter the most powerful man in the world, certainly the western world more or less any time we want. 

We have a level of access that is unparalleled in the world, so we don’t really understand what its like in other countries. I was speaking to a tribal missionary in another country one time, and he said he was asking for prayer that he’d be able to meet the tribal leader. He was in a tribe of about 200 people serving as a missionary, and even with so few people he had no ability to go speak to the leader. He could only speak to the leader if the leader requested it, and if he were to show up without an invite, and the leader be displeased by it, then the missionary is dead. That’s a more common way of leading around the world. Kill those that get too close, and yet God has adopted us as believers in Jesus Christ, as sons and daughters. Princes and Princesses of the king aof kings and lord of lords. Don’t take that for granted. 

Did we earn it? Nope. But its freely offered to us despite our sin requiring the death of Christ. 

I think that is spelled out in our final verse – For the Lord is good and his love endures for ever. His faithfulness continues through all generations. 

So even though adam and eve, and ever human being ever since has let God down, he still chose to love us. 

That should be an encouraging thing right there. When we start looking at our selves and finding ourselves lacking, we have to remember that God sees our faults even more clearly, and those of us who are believers in Jesus Christ, he chose us any way. His son was sent to die for us any way. Not so we could spend our lives in self reflection, but so that we can spend our lives making much of our Good God. 

God cares how he’s worshipped. Evangelism is a part of worship. Evangelism happens when we are properly focused on God, and not ourselves. 

Evangelism starts with the gospel. 





