Psalm 23

The LORD Is My Shepherd

A Psalm of David.

	[1] The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.
	[2] 	He makes me lie down in green pastures.
	He leads me beside still waters.
	[3] 	He restores my soul.
	He leads me in paths of righteousness
		for his name’s sake.
	[4] Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,
		I will fear no evil,
	for you are with me;
		your rod and your staff,
		they comfort me.
	[5] You prepare a table before me
		in the presence of my enemies;
	you anoint my head with oil;
		my cup overflows.
	[6] Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me
		all the days of my life,
	and I shall dwell in the house of the LORD
		forever. (ESV)

Today that is exactly where Barbara is. I’ve had the priveledge of being her pastor for the past several years now. In fact, her first year at the church, she’d only been a handful of times, and I got a call that she had experienced a stroke. She was just over here at bayonet point, so I ran over to visit her. I had no idea that the only word she could say at this point was no. 

So I walked in and asked her how she was doing, and she told me empahtically NO. I asked how the food was, and once more no. I tried to make small talk for a few minutes but every question, she told me no. We laughed about it later, but I left thinking I had offended her. 

The last time I saw her was when we did a church service at the assisted living facility she has been living at. When I went to make sure they were up and ready her whole face lit up. Barbara had a smile that could lite up a room. 

One thing I know for sure is that today for her, her faith has become sight. Because I know Barbara I can say with certainty when she took that last breath she woke up in the presence of our savior, and Jesus said to her “well done my good and faithful servant”. Shes finally home where her lungs aren’t betraying her any more. She can walk and move and breathe freely without issue. I doubt she would be inclined to, but if she wanted to with her new body she could run and jump and play. No more tears. No more sorrow. No sickness. Just joy and the presence of God. Up there with Jesus who as our passage says leads us beside the still waters, through the green pastures. He restores our soul. He knows what we need, and he leads us to those things. People have asked why a rod and staff, is Jesus going to hit his sheep? The rod and staff are there ot protect the sheep. If a wolf comes around, the rod can be used to fight off the wolf. The staff is for sheep that are prone to wander. I have sheep, and we use it when we need to treat a sheep too. We have one now that has injured himself, and he’s just heatlhy enough that he doesn’t think he needs any more antibiotics, but we know, if he doesn’t get a few more days worth of treatments, that it can come back with a vengeance. So when hes feeling sassy, we can use the staff to rein him in, and give him the medicine that he needs. Its like that for us too. Sometmies we are prone to wander, and God lovingly, and gently, draws us back to himself. God is so good to us, even in the midst of hard things. And he loves us so much. 

And One thing I know Barbara  wanted more than anything else is for all of you to be up there with her one day. If you follow Jesus than one day you will be. Maybe you’re here today and you want to become a Christian, and you want to go where Barbara went. That starts with the gospel. Or maybe youre here today and you realize like my sheep, you’re prone to wander, and you want God to help you stay away from this or that, then I think that starts with the gospel too. 

All of that starts with the gospel. 

Repent and Believe. 