I heard a man preaching recently, and he was sharing from his heart. He was an old cattleman turned preacher, and he said “you know, it strikes me that I have to drive my cattle, but I must lead my sheep. It most of my life, I’ve been cattle, God had to drive me from this thing to that thing. But I find myself at a point in my life where I want to be lead, I want to be more like a sheep than cattle”. 

Part of the challenge of the Christian life is learning to follow the shepherd. The shepherd will drive us there. Cattle are driven with dogs, and by being chased by men on horseback. 

Sheep have an issue where for long wooled sheep, they sometimes lay down in a little hollow or depression, and that’s fine. Sheep can lay down so long as their heads stay upright. But sometimes they stretch, and the hollow makes their center of gravity shift, and when it shifts, sometimes it makes them roll, and when they roll they end up upside down almost in a position where no matter how they struggle, they can’t fight there way back to just laying down. 

So what you end up with is a sheep laying upside down, pawing at the air, trying to shift its weight again to get right back up. But because of the shape of sheep, and the ground, and so on they can’t, so they lay there upside down, pawing, stuck, and because Sheep digest food differently than people, sheep have a rumen, which is a place where they store food, and allow bacteria to break down the food for them. However when a healthy sheep goes upside down, or even if a healthy sheep gets stuck on their side for a while, the liquid and bacteria in the rumen goes where it shouldn’t, and it begins to digest the sheep instead. 

This sheep is now in a position where it can’t save itself, and will die in just a few hours. This draws vultures, and the shepherd has to run out and look for the sheep. At this point there is only one solution for the sheep, the shepherd. This is called in English, a cast sheep. This matters, and you’ll see in our scripture here in a moment. 

While you’re turning to psalms 23, lets talk about our people group of the week. 

So you see those first two verses? He makes me lie down in green pastures. The reason he does that is so you don’t end up in the position of the cast sheep. 

The sheep that stay with the flock, they lay down in the green pastures. It’s the sheep that wander and stray that end up laying down in hollows in the ground, end up tipping over and dying. Earthly shepherds see vultures, and know something is up. Turns out a vulture can smell a sheep that’s digesting itself. A watchful shepherd sees the signs, and steps in. tips the wayward sheep over, and helps it back to the flock. 

Sheep are prone to a variety of problems. They are vulnerable to snakes, and feet problems. They can have issues with eating too much, or too little. The wrong food can kill them. Or cause awful mutations. We had a sheep with cyclopia born to us once, one big eye in the middle of its forehead, and no lungs. It didn’t last long. All because of peaches being eaten at the wrong point of the pregnancy. Sheep are prone to leg problems, or hip problems. Parasites, and wolves, or bears, or other predators or other nasty things. 

But you know what? There is one thing that can protect a sheep from all these things – a good shepherd. A good shepherd keeps the predators away, a good shepherd makes sure that all the sheep stick together, that they lay down in places that are safe and appropriate for the sheep. They make sure to kill any snakes, or wolves, or coyote that are a threat to the flock. They make sure the feet are taken care of. They make sure they graze in places that are safe, and not too much, or not too little food. A good shepherd is the antidote to any problem a sheep has. A sheep that walks for too long in the water can have rot issues in its feet, or can have their oil glands in their feet clog, get infected, and kill the sheep. But a good shepherd is watching for these things. 

One of the great things about our shepherd is his omniscience. So if we wander off, God doesn’t have to wait for the vultures to start circling to know that there is a sheep in trouble – because of God’s omniscience he just knows, and he can intervene at that point. Sheep have to worry if their shepherd falls asleep – the wolves could come in and make short work of a flock. 

You guys remember my dog grace? We brought home four new sheep one day, cute sheep, from good lines. Their father was absolutely gigantic. We were really excited. We let them out of the dog crate, and let them wander the yard. Grace went outside and was wandering around looking for a place to go to the bathroom, and in under a minute she had killed all four sheep. Dead. sheep have to depend on their shepherd to be alert and aware of threats, and if the shepherd falls asleep, or has to use the mens room, the sheep can die, and quickly. But the goodshepherd’s attensions never lapse. 

Secondly, Sheep are followers. If you’ve been on social media lately, that seems to be the only thing both the left and right can agree on is that some amount of people on either side are sheep, sheep because they are followers. In fact I heard a story this week about a guy that had ten thousand sheep in the UK, and when sheep follow, they justs watch each others tails. They see another sheeps tail moving, they follow it. They see anothers tail moving quickly they move quickly too, and so it happened that one day, this guy in the UK had a sheep spook, and take off running, all the sheep near by saw his tail – high tailing it so to speak, and thousands of sheep took off after her. She ran and ran and ran, and accidently jumped off a cliff. All the sheep following her tail did the same, until the nearly the entire flock had gone over the side with more than 1500 dying. The rest landed on a pile of dead sheep and managed to escape with minor to no injuries. The sheep dog kept about 2000 of them from jumping off the cliff. But sheep are followers. They like routine, and so back in the day when this was written the sheep would walk in the same path day after day, and it would create ruts. Where it says “paths” David means ruts. Sheep ruts. The sheep when they were in a rutt, were doing good because they were following their shepherd. Each shepherd knew which rut was theirs, and which their sheep should be in, and which rut went to which grassy meadow.so the shepherds would lead the sheep through the ruts. The only time the sheep would be in trouble, is when they left the path, and quit following the shepherd. One thing I loved is that the shepherds knew their sheep so well, that they knew which sheep or sheeps would have trouble at which points. This one might try and lay down in the rutt, that one will try to take yesterdays rutt. This one will not pay attention, and try and graze on the side of the rutt, it’ll get lost if we go too fast. So the shepherd knew what sheep were prone to which disasters, and would carefully move and work so as not to lose any sheep. 

Our Lord knows us intimately, and he knows what issues you and I are prone to. He knows where we are weak, or strong. He knows when and by what we will be frightened, and when and why we will be too brave. And he weaves his plan in and out around these things to not only accommodate us where we are today, but to allow for us to grow, and will accommodate where we will be in the future. What a wonderful and loving God we serve. Loves us too much to leave us where we are, but loves us enough to overcome our own issues, and to help us be the best versions of our self we can be so that we can best reflect God’s glory, and His son. 

Thirdly, its interesting to note that some of the roles of a shepherd are delegated to us.  (gal 6:1) says Brothers and sisters, if someone is caught in a sin, you who live by the Spirit should restore that person gently. We are to go after them and help restore them to God. God uses us as instruments of shepherding in that situation. Its easy I think to ignore situations of sin, and allow people we love to linger in their own filth. Scripture says like dogs return to their vomit, so a sow washed returns to wallowing in the mud. It applies to us. We are so easily confused, and wanting to do the right thing, do the wrong thing. Our shepherd goes after us and draws us back, thankfully! But I don’t want to be the sheep that is always being dragged back. IN fact history tells us in this time period, if a sheep developed a reputation for always wandering off, and not wanting to be with the flock, the shepherds out of an abundance of mercy and concern would break the sheeps leg, and carry her everywhere until the leg healed. After which, the sheep would always stay near the flock. Near the shepherd. No more wandering into situations that bring death. 

We had something happen yesterday in fact. For various reasons, one of our yearling ewes ended up jumping off the dock into the water. Sheep are humerous swimmers – they sort of waddle, and kick, but don’t go anywhere fast. But this sheep jumped off the dock, and swam nearly across the canal before we noticed it. I wasn’t there, so Ellisha had to jump in and bring her back around. The shepherd ahd to pursue the sheep, and draw her back to safety. Sheep stay warm because of their rumen, as long as they have food to eat they can stay warm. But when a sheep is neck deep in water, it can eventually slow the rumen down, sort of turn off their internal heater. At that point the sheep dies if they can’t get it going again, so being neck deep in the water is a risky thing for a sheep. But Ellisha swam over and lovingly brought the sheep back home to safety. Like our savior does for us. 

We have pastures, and things that keep us from having to do things like break legs. We just keep all the sheep together in the pasture, and the fence keeps the sheep out of trouble, and keeps trouble away from the sheep. Its funny to me, sheep in one way are one of the most low maintenance animals you can have. They can survive off just your grass, without expensive grains. They have lots of genetic immunities to things like different types of parasite, or whatever. Their bodies heal quickly of most issues. Their bones knit back together way faster than a humans do. And yet in other regards they are high maintenance. Simply things like falling over on a slight hill is enough for them to die. On the one hand a ram can charge a full grown bull head on, and come out on top. On the other hand, they will follow other sheep off a cliff without even thinking about it to their death. 

They are hardy, and yet vulnerable. Strong, and yet weak. Healthy, and yet when they give up, it doesn’t matter how well their body is working, when a sheep gives up, they die. They are able to survive most any situation, and yet they are vulnerable and in need of protection. 

Kinda like us. 
Where do our hearts lead us? Right into trouble. We need our savior to lead us, to guide us, and when we need it to punish us. Scripture says God punishes those he loves. 

Finally vs 4, but before we read that I want to tell a story. I was in the keys, we used to go to the keys pretty much every year, and we would go diving for lobster. Any way this one year, we are diving under long key viaduct, mom and dad had their scuba tanks, and I was there with my mask and snorkel. Any way, I’m down there trying to dig this lobster out. They wedge themselves in, and its hard to really get them out sometimes without breaking all their legs off, so you have to work at it, and sometimes you have to make them think there is a predator behind them, and you kind poke the top of their back and the rear of the lobster… any way its kind of an involved process sometimes. So I’m down there trying to get this lobster out, and this absolutely massive shadow comes over me. I hear the jaws themesong in my head, and I forget about the lobster and look around. Just sure a great big shark is swimming around me. The shadow kind of circled me. So I finally see what it was, and it was just a 3’ barracuda swimming up near the surface, but that little barracuda made a 10 foot shadow down on bottom. It was absolutely terrifying for the 2 seconds it took me to figure out what was going on. 

Shadows can be scary, but its an empty fear. The kind of fear that can be driven out by knowledge. Lets read vs 4. 

The valley of the shadow of death. Some translations say simply death valley – but that’s an oversimplification of the Hebrew here and a step too far. Because that word shadow is an important distinction. It’s the difference between a 10’ great white shark swimming over you and a 3’ barracuda. The difference between a potential man eater, and a little predator that likes to keep to himself. It’s the difference between real danger, and the appearance of danger. 

Do you guys remember when you sent me to Monroe Michagin back in the summer of 2001? Some of you may. Any way, while I was there, every group that came up to help wanted to go to Cabellas. The cabellas up there was really cool. There was a huge fake mountain, covered in real animals that had been preserved through taxidermy. There were white tailed deer, and birds, and ducks, and otter, and basically if you can imagine it, they had one. It was a really cool display with a giant fishtank at the bottom of it. Sorta like bass pro shop’s display, but even grander. 


One one side of this display was a gigantic stuffed bear. Its posed standing on its hind legs and was probably pretty close to ten or eleven feet tall. It was tall enough that if I were standing next to it, I couldn’t have reached up and touched its chin. It was a cool looking thing. One of the lights right behind it cast an even larger bear shadow on the ground. Its one thing to encounter a 10 or 11 foot tall bear in the woods. Its another to encounter the 15’ shadow of a bear in a camping store. If we were walking in the woods and came across a 10 foot bear, we’d probably be running away almost immediately after, and possibly in mortal danger. But when you’re talking about just the shadow of a thing, it’s a whole different story. With the good shepherd watching out for us, any danger is just the shadow of the danger. With God on our side it’s the difference between finding a real bear in the woods, and coming across the shadow of a stuffed bear in the store. One has real risk, and the other has been rendered safe. The other we are protected from. 

But all that starts with a relationship with God. A relation ship with the good shepherd. And that starts with the gospel. 
 