
Were going to be in Romans 12 today, Romans 12 if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have. Were going to be reading the whole chapter. But in bits and pieces, out of order. Hopefully that’s a little easier than reading 21 verses consecutively. Were going to start with 12:1-2. This may be the least popular sermon I’ve ever preached, but I’m just the mouth piece… Any way. While you’re turning to Romans 12, I want to talk about our people group of the week _______.

Lets read our passage. 

First thing I want to bring up is that word for Body. IN Greek the lemma is Soma, and soma means body. But the word has more depth of meaning than that. It also means corpse. In the LXX – an early translation of the bible. The word used can mean corpse, monument, body, the totality of your faculties, power, strength, wealth, property, competence, courage, or army. Or all of your breath. OR meat intended for sacrifice. Basically in this sense, it’s the sum total of who you are, what you do, how you think, its all of you. Your hopes, and dreams, and ambitions, the conditions underwhich you are comfortable. Everything. We are to submit to God as meat meant for the sacrifice. Its giving God a blank check for your life. I know you guys, and I know that most of you feel that way, and would give an amen on the statement “my life is God’s to pour out as he sees fit”. Amen? Is there any part of you that doesn’t or that you think shouldn’t belong to God? I’m going to follow God in my life except in this part? If so, that’s a problem. What if God – and I get that this is unlikely – but what if. What if God appeared to you tomorrow and said I want you to vote for this candidate or that candidate that you disagree with? Have you given God your politics? This is an election year, and I don’t like talking about politics, except in this way, are your politics subject to our King? Hear me. Jesus wasn’t a democrat. But Jesus wasn’t a republican either. Our politics – as part of following Christ, must be subject to Christ. 

OK, next group of verses, lets read vs 3-4 

Its easy to look around the room and see the people we love, and have been friends with for decades, and be happy that they are part of our body. Even people that would be here if it weren’t a pandemic. I think of Paula and Mel, who doesn’t love them? Who isn’t happy to have them as a part of our body? Or faithful Carol who comes and cleans, or Dottie and willie who help with a  little bit of everything, who isn’t happy they are part of our body? It’s a wonderful thing, the church working together for God’s purposes. These are people we know and love. Who isn’t happy that Bob and Sherry Clark are part of our body, our family. I could keep naming people, but you get the idea! If you feel funny that your name wasn’t mentioned, submit that part of you to God! If you were named, and you feel funny, submit that part of you to God. 

Its easy to include people you love in your family. Easy to recognize them as being part of the body of Christ. But what about those that you disagree with? Republicans, what about those democrats? Are they part of the body of Christ too? I don’t want to hear you say “you can’t be a democrat and a Christian” because that’s simply not true. I know a lot of beautiful Christians that are horrified and wonder if a republican can truly be saved, and some of their arguments have merit. But democrat, republicans are part of the body of Christ too. Part of our family too. Politics are something that should be in submission to God, and not something we divide over. Because at the end of the day what does scripture say about kings and presidents and authorities? That there is no authority except that which God has established. Republicans, God chose Barack Obama, and Democrats, God chose Donald Trump. I can see the looks in your eyes that says I know he chose the candidate I like, but let me tell you why he couldn’t have chosen that other guy”. God chose both men. Ok, now the easy part is behind us. 

I don’t normally title sermons, but if I had to title last weeks it would be the Christians response to persecution. If I had to title this weeks it would be the Christians response to their brother or sister being persecuted. I came across a letter this week. It was a response to a letter he had received. This black man is someone I’ve met once, but not someone I would say I know. He’s a friend of a friend from college. His name is Shai Linne. He’s an educated black man. He is a believer in Jesus Christ whose been to seminary. He has served as pastor, and church planter at a number of southern Baptist churches. 

He loves Jesus with his whole heart, and as a musician now uses his celebrity, and music to disciple people through his art. He sort of disciples folks but through his music. Its not to supplant pastoral discipleship, but is an extra tool provided in addition to. His music isn’t for everyone, but his lyrics are. I’d like to read a little of his lyrics before we read a bit of his letter. 

In the gospel, God addresses our depravity The Lamb slain at Calvary, the depths of His agony He rose from the grave with abundant grace So when we come in faith- He’ll bring us up from the sunken place Our sin’s decrepit depths left a mess No rest was left ’til Jesus put death to death The beauty of the victory truly is a mystery The cross of Jesus Christ is at the nucleus of history Before the cross they were saved on credit After the cross, we’ve been saved on debit

This is the kind of music he’s putting out, everything points to Christ. Earlier in the same song he talks about his testimony, agnostic – which means he believed something was out there he just didn’t know who, and was sure it wasn’t the God of the bible. He was running around living the criminal life, doing drugs, buying prostitutes, reveling in the full glory of all the filth this world has to offer. Till he met Jesus. 

Now he’s the loudest voice for Jesus in contemporary music that I know of. Any way, he wrote this letter, and I want to share parts of it with you. 

Sister, I’m going to tell you how I’m doing. And as I tell you, please understand that I’m incapable of completing this message without weeping. There’s a part of me that’s saying, “Spare yourself the pain, Shai. It’s not worth it.” But I’m choosing not to listen to that part of me because I would be robbing you of an opportunity to “bear one another’s burdens” and “mourn with those who mourn”—and I’m sure, as a sister in Christ, you want to do just that.
Sister, I am heartbroken and devastated. I feel gutted. I haven’t been able to focus on much at all since I saw the horrific video of George Floyd’s murder. The image of that officer with hand in pocket as he calmly and callously squeezed the life out of that man while he begged for his life is an image that will haunt me until the day I die. But it’s not just the video of this one incident. For many black people, it’s never about just one incident. Just as it wasn’t just about the videos of Eric Garner, Tamir Rice, Philando Castile, Sandra Bland, Laquan McDonald, Walter Scott, Rodney King, etc., etc., etc., etc. 
This is about how being a black man in America has shaped both the way I see myself and the way others have seen me my whole life. It’s about being told to leave the sneaker store as a 12-year-old, because I was taking too long to decide which sneakers I wanted to buy with my birthday money and the white saleswoman assumed I was in the store to steal something. 
It’s about being handcuffed and thrown into the back of a police car while walking down the street during college, and then waiting for a white couple to come identify whether or not I was the one who’d committed a crime against them, knowing that if they said I was the one, I would be immediately taken to jail, no questions asked. 
It’s about walking down the street as a young man and beginning to notice that white people, women especially, would cross to the other side of the street to avoid walking past me—and me beginning to preemptively cross to the other side myself to save them the trouble of being afraid and to save me the humiliation of that silent transaction. 
It’s about taking a road trip with my sons to visit Blair’s family in Michigan—and my greatest fear being getting pulled over for no reason other than driving while black, told to get out of the car, cuffed, and sat down on the side of the road, utterly emasculated and humiliated with my young boys looking out the window, terrified, which is exactly what happened to a good friend of mine when he took his family on a road trip. 
It’s about the exhaustion of constantly feeling I have to assert my humanity in front of some white people I’m meeting for the first time, to let them know, “Hey! I’m not a threat! You don’t need to be afraid. If you got to know me, I’m sure we have things in common!” 
It’s about me sometimes asking my wife to do things in certain customer-service situations, since I know she’ll likely get treated better than I will. 
It’s about borrowing a baby swing from a white friend in our mostly white suburb of D.C. and her telling me, “Sure you can borrow it. I have to step out, but I’ll leave it on the porch for you. Just go grab it”—and then feeling heart palpitations as my car approached her home, debating whether or not to get the swing and being terrified as I walked up the steps that someone would think I was stealing it and call the cops on me. 
It’s about intentionally making sure the carseats are in the car, even if the kids aren’t, so that when (not “if”—it happens all the time) I’m stopped by the police, they will perhaps notice the carseats and also the wedding band on one of my visible hands on the wheel (which I’ve been taught to keep there and not move until he tells me to—and even then, in an exaggeratedly slow manner) and will perhaps think to himself, This man is married with a family and small kids like me. Maybe he wants to get home safely to his family just like I do.
It’s about having to explain to my 4-year-old son at his mostly white Christian school that the kids who laughed at him for having brown skin were wrong, that God made him in his image, and that his skin is beautiful—after he told me, “Daddy, I don’t want brown skin. I want white skin.”
It’s about having what feels like genuine fellowship with my white brothers and sisters who share the same Reformed theology—until I mention racism, injustice, or police brutality, at which point I’m looked at skeptically as if I embrace a “social gospel” or am some kind of “liberal” or “social justice warrior.”
And it’s about sometimes feeling like some of my white friends aren’t that particularly interested in truly knowing me—at least not in any meaningful way that might actually challenge their preconceptions. Rather, it feels like they use me to feel better about themselves because I check off the “black friend” box. Much more could be mentioned. These were the first things that came to mind. 
So when I watch a video like George Floyd’s, it represents for me the fresh reopening of a deep wound and the reliving of layers of trauma that get exponentially compounded each time a well-meaning white friend says, “All lives matter.” Of course they do, but in this country, black lives have been treated like they don’t matter for centuries and present inequities in criminal justice, income, housing, health care, education, etc. show that all lives don’t actually matter like they should.

This is what its like to be a person of color in our country today. 

 Romans 12:14 Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse them. 15 Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. 16 Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly.[h] Never be wise in your own sight. 17 Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all.

There are a few things in this final section of verses, and I don’t want you to get distracted. I remember one preacher in church one sunday saying that if you weren’t paying close attention you’d think God was speaking directly to your spouse sitting next to you. Don’t get distracted by the parts of this that are for other people. Focus on what God has for us. Most of us have never been discriminated against. Most of us will never be. Most of us will never be under true persecution for Christ’s sake. I want you to focus on the parts that are for us, as the family of, as part of the one body of Christ. Vs 15 weep with those who weep. Christians, how many of you have wept with those that are weeping right now? Based on social media, most of us are more caught up in the wrongness of the riots. Most of us are caught up in feeling indignant that a thing we’ve worked hard for is being called a privilege, instead of the culmination of decades of hard work and toil. Most of us are getting caught up in things we should have offered up as a living sacrifice to God. Your rights, your goals, and ambitions, and dreams. Your buisness. All of these things are part of the sum total of who you are, all things that we must offer up as a living sacrifice to God. When these things take priority than they are an idol. Idols should be smashed, and not worshipped. 

Have you wept with those who weep this past week? Or have you done something else? 

This issue, this time is a difficult one to navigate. But some things are clear. 
It doesn't say make them justify their heartache, and then weep with them. It just says weep with them. We don't even have to get it. They are part of the body of Christ, our body, and they are hurting. We have a biblical mandate. The biblical mandate isn't snipe from social media. The biblical mandate isn't to complain about their sin. Lets look at it another way. A female friend walks into your establishment, dressed inappropriately. Shes crying because she found out her mom passed away. What do you do first? Tell her to put some clothes on? or do you try to comfort your friend? Weep with those who weep. Keep our priorities straight. Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. Gal 6:2 “This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you" John 15:12. That last one is hard to live up to. Christ loved you to the cross. Can you? Are you? Will you love your neighbor in their moment of grief? Look past their sin, as Christ looks past yours, and see a brother or sister grieving, and grieve with them. There is time for discussion about the other stuff later. But vs 17 Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. I’ve seen some posts this week, that I don’t think would have made Jesus proud. I had a list. But I dropped it. Before you post anything about anything. I want you to ask your self is this going to further the gospel? Or will this be a distraction. If its going to be a distraction, even if its accurate, if its going to deepen the divide, I ask you to please not post it. Right now is the time to weep with the weeping. We can talk about their clothes later. Guard your testimony as a Christian. Love as Christ loved. 

As sinners were down wallowing in the mud of the world, and Christ loved us so much he came down, and met us where we were, where we are at. Covered in sin and the mud and filth of this world. Or mirey clay as Psalms 40 says, picked us up, and set our feet upon the rock. He loved us, he died for us, without us ever having done anything to deserve it. And he commands us -  This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you" John 15:12. We are to weep with the weeping, to love the lost – whether they are lovely or not, and share the life saving truth of the gospel. 

Isn’t it wonderful that God loved us that much? He isn’t expecting anything more from us than he was willing to do himself. 

In 1 corinthians we are called to be ministers of reconciliation. He’s not just talking to pastors there, he’s talking about you. Have you taken steps this week to live up to that Biblical calling and standard? If not, why not? 

Maybe you’re here today and you didn’t know how much God loved you, that he would send his son to die for you, maybe you didn’t know how much Jesus loved you, that he was willing to die for you. If that’s you, let me tell you a little more. Scripture says in romans 3:23

Gospel. 