I was at someones house one time, and I was looking for a cup, I knew where the cups normally were and was a regular guest so I checked there first. But the cabinet was empty. Thinking they probably just hadn’t run the dishwasher yet I popped it open, and success. I found a cup. Looked great on the outside, clean, white. The other dishes in the dishwasher appeared clean also, so I took my cup over to their fridge and dropped some ice cubs in there, and started filling it with water. Only to be smacked in the face by a smell. You know the one, rotting food. It was at this point that I looked inside the cup and saw a bone stuck to the inside of the cup, kind of moldy looking, may have been bbq at some point, but now it was all rancid, nasty stinking dead moldy bone. I was really glad I noticed before taking a sip.  That cup looked good on the outside, but on the inside it was absolutely vile. Sinful you might say. 

I read a story about a man that believed he was safe because his people had been given a special name by God – Jew. He was proud of having the right monotheism – he wasn’t a jehovas witness, Mormon, or muslim. He could discern between good and evil. He had even been educated in old testament law. 

Let me ask you, and this is not a trick question. Is he safe from hell based on those few things? Such a person would be like my cup, clean on the outside, and sinful on the inside. 

Today people have multiple bibles, are called Christians, know the difference between moral evil and moral good, they are monothesistic – they don’t worship multiple Gods, and they don’t worship the pope, or a saint, or islam, or Krishna, they have received a Sunday school education through the old and new testament. 

One day, will that be enough for them to get to heaven one day? They too are like my cup. They may look nice for church, they may play nice in front of their pastor, but at the end of the day, where it matters they are like the inside of my cup. Moldy, nasty, stinky, dead. 

Jewish leaders saw themselves as guides of the blind, but Jesus says they were blind leading the blind. They had spent their lives studying the old testament – God’s word, and were proud of that. They traveled around looking for religious converts, and yet after Christ, were they saving these people? Or enslaving them to the law? They were the blind leading the blind. 

This was meant to be on the edge of offensive to the Jews of the day. The jewish leaders especially considered themselves to be enlightened, they considered themselves to be the standard of holiness, and godliness and to have reached the pinnacle of knowledge. And yet in Mathew 23 he calls those same people white washed tombs. Made to look alive on the outside, but dead inside. Like my cup. Looked fine in the dishwasher, it had clearly been run. But a dishwasher can only do so much, and that wedged in bone, covered in vile filth was more than any human endeavor could have made clean. 

I talked to my friend later, and he said they had to throw out the cup. They got the bone out, they got the mold out. But the smell persisted and was so awful it made anyone who tried to use it feel like they were going to vomit. The cup was irredeemable, and disgusting. And is now destroyed. 

Lets read our passage this morning. Romans ch 2:1-11
I cant help but think of Mt 23 when I read this passage. We need to be our own harshest critics.  The rabbais and jewish leadership were taking a new convert and forcing outward compliance to a greater degree than the rabbais, and jewish leaders were willing to follow themselves. 

It would be like today, 1 corinthians 11 talks about how a man dishonors himself if he prays with a hat on, and then lays out the reasoning for it. Likewise 1 corinthians says a woman who prays without a head covering dishonors herself. So If I were to preach on that, and then next Sunday come to church wearing a hat then I’d be doing basically what they were doing, only they were doing these things in secret. They said you can swear by the temple, and not follow through, but if you swear by the gold in the temple, then you really mean it, or you can swear by the altar and not follow through, but if you swear by the meat on the altar then you’d better follow through. These rabbais were teaching these sorts of things. They were making people jump through a million often contradictory hoops, and in the end they were being religious without the relationship with Jesus Christ. 

Jesus responded and said what purpose is the gold without the temple, and the meat without the altar, it is the temple and the altar that are the important parts. He goes on to call them white washed tombs. They were nice looking on the outside, and in public, but in the privacy of their own homes they were dead inside. Rotten stinking corpses. Part of the crowd faking it. Trying to look good on Sunday, but smell like hellfire the rest of the week. Sort of like spraying perfume on a corpse. 

I knew someone that had a cat growing up, and it had escaped they thought. They looked everywhere for that cat. A few days, turned into a week, turned into a month, and at that point the mom found the cat, because of the smell.  But her husband didn’t believe it was their cat, he had to see it for himself. She didn’t want to leave it out side, because then the stink would get worse, and it was already so bad that it was hard to stay in the same room with it. So she made a coffin – a cardboard boot box, a hand towel or two, and then the cat. But oh the smell was so bad, so she went and got febreeze out of the pantry, and she sprayed the cat with that. 

People febreeze can cover a lot of smells, but not the nauseating stench of something that’s been dead for a while. But she tried. Then she sprayed Lysol, no help. So she went into her bedroom and brought out some of the Dolce and Gabana perfume she had been given for Christmas. Even that didn’t make it better. So she put the lid on the box, and tried to seal it inside a plastic garbage bag. Even then, she could still smell the stink of death, through the bag, over the perfume and Lysol and febreeze. It didn’t matter what she did, she didn’t have anything that smelled strongly enough to cover the stink of death. 

So it is for those who live their week for themselves, and try to only live Sundays for the lord. 
Paul writes in vs 3: do you think you will escape God’s judgment? 4 Or do you show contempt for the riches of his kindness, forbearance and patience, not realizing that God’s kindness is intended to lead you to repentance?
5 But because of your stubbornness and your unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath against yourself for the day of God’s wrath, when his righteous judgment will be revealed. 6 God “will repay each person according to what they have done.”[a] 7 To those who by persistence in doing good seek glory, honor and immortality, he will give eternal life. 8 But for those who are self-seeking and who reject the truth and follow evil, there will be wrath and anger. 9 There will be trouble and distress for every human being who does evil: first for the Jew, then for the Gentile. 

You know what Jesus said about such people? About these white washed tombs, about these people like my cup, clean on the outside but full of filth and rot and decay on the inside? People like that cat laid out all pretty in a boot box, with little towels, sprayed with expensive perfume but reeking of death? 

Jesus says in mt 23 woe to you, you brood of vipers. How will you escape the fires of hell? 

Such people reek of hellfires. You know the ones I mean, those that come to church on Sunday, and on Monday, they go back to cursing like sailors. They dress nice on Sunday, but on Monday, they go back to having sex outside of marriage. They may smell of nice perfume on Sunday, but on Monday they live for themselves. They seek out whatever earthly pleasure the lusts of their heart desire. On Sunday, they wear nice shoes; and on Monday they worship their true slavemaster – the devil. But boy their hair looks nice on Sunday. 

There is a group of people out there that believe if they can just fool the pastor on Sundays then maybe they will be able to fool God. People if I can see it, God can see it. But if I can’t see it God definitely still can. 

In truth the difference between these people we’ve been talking about – the white washed tombs, the perfumed dead cats, the cups clean on the outside, and full of rot inside is Jesus Christ. 

Someone who yields their life to Christ, who becomes a believer in Jesus Christ has that filth scrubbed out of their cup. Where it was nasty and gross and full of mold, and stink, Jesus comes in like mr clean and scrubs all the dirt and stink away. Even the dirt on the outside that you and I can’t see, He takes care of that too. 

That cat, dead, and stinking of too much perfume and death. He doesn’t just take the stink away, he resurrects the cat. Eph 2 says we were dead in our trespasses and sins,     But God, being rich in mercy, because of His great love with which He loved us even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you have been saved), and raised us up with Him, and seated us with Him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the ages to come He might show the surpassing ariches of His grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith; and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God; as a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them.
In short, that person inside the white washed tomb, Jesus doesn’t help them do better at hiding their mess. He resurrects the corpse. He doesn’t spray it with perfume, he gives the dead guy a new body, a new nature. 

What then should we do, those of us who have been made new. We’ve been resurrected as believers, were no longer dead, were no longer a corpse inside that tomb. Should we then crawl back inside the tomb to sleep? Certainly not. Should we go back to sinning? Certainly not. We need to set our minds on things above. 

Col 3 says if you’ve been raised with Christ, if you’ve become a Christian, then set your minds on things above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Because our old nature is gone, we have a new nature, and that new nature is hidden in Christ. So put to death the earthly desires such as sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. 6 On account of these the wrath of God is coming. 

I was talking with another pastor this week. Up in Georgia, they were able to save 39 kids who had been kidnapped to be sold into sexual slavery. 39 american kids. They caught the guys. I felt conflicted. Not because they caught bad guys, for that I was happy. But because on the one hand I know vengeance is the Lords, and on the other hand I was hoping the people who would do that to kids would get the death penalty. It occurred to me through the course of this conversation that all earthly justice can do is take the mans life. He/they have already lost their freedom, they are already in bondage. Confining them to a cell, while appropriate doesn’t change their captivity, and secondly that God’s justice will come for these people, and all of the ones that are never caught. God’s justice is both more severe, and more perfectly fitting the crime than anything we could ever dream up. Growing up I heard someone say God has a special place in hell for those that hurt children.  I think that quote belongs firmly in the book of first speculations. However we do know God says its better to kill yourself, than to hurt a child. Its something he takes special interest in, and his vengeance will be perfect against the monsters that took and abused those 39 children. 

Jonathan Edwards – whom is regarded as Americas most important theologian and philosopher quoted Hebrews when he said “it is a dreadful thing to fall into the hands of an angry God”. The sexually immoral, impure, who desire evil, and covet, and idolatrous are heading for just that – the hands of an angry God. 

Idolatry is something we have to be very careful of in this country. We don’t generally grab a stick, carve a face in it, and worship the stick. We know better than that. Where we get in trouble is in other ways that seem more sneaky, but that are no less gross than worshipping a stick. 

We slowly give our hearts over to things that don’t matter. We elevate our own comfort, or security, or pleasures above God’s desires for us. We buy into the notion that we don’t have to share the gospel if only we can elect a Godly man in the white house. I agree that we should try and elect Godly people into the nations positions of power. 

But I disagree that this is a cure all. The problem is sin, not whose running the country. 

I read a thing that an author aquaintence of mine named Barnabus Piper wrote. He said “Christian, if you feel politically homeless you’re probably right where God wants you. This world is not our home, we serve a greater ruler, and we are to represent his kingdom here. And it looks nothing, not a bit, like our present political power structures and parties. 

He continues “Christian if you feel at ease in either major American political party, you’re in a bad place. You likely have placed the values of your own party, of power, of man made structures over the words, values, economy and reality of Christ’s kingdom that you are called to represent.”
I won’t say that’s always true. But I think its mostly true. Especially in our denomination, folks have a tendency to worship politics at the expense of the gospel. At the expense of Christ. 

Think back over your conversations this week, or maybe better. Look at your facebook profile. If someone were to find you on facebook. Would it be easier for them to know your politics? Or know your savior? If they can’t find your savior on your page, than perhaps you have an issue in your heart. Perhaps Christian, maybe, just maybe, you’re flirting with political idolatry. 

If you have not yet become a believer in Jesus Christ, then I challenge you to ask your self this question: EE

Gospel. 