Am I fully Convinced – 14:1-5 (it is before his own master that he stands or falls (esv)

I have a quick story about my dog Grace, you guys remember grace? She was one of the best and most hard headed dogs I’ve ever had. I remember this one time Grace had been in the trash a lot. Seemed like every day we were having to have a discussion about her getting in the trash. Gently swat her on the backside with new paper, or flip flops, or whatever was handy. It had been pretty much every day for a week. She KNEW that I didn’t want her to. But in the moment she chose to do what she wanted, instead of what she knew was right. This one particular time, she knocked the can over, and opie my moms dog at the time had got in there too. Both of them were going to town on whatever the families gross leavings had been. I stood there for a minute watching their reflection in a window. Soon as I came through the door and saw it, Grace knew she was in trouble, put her tail between her legs and put herself in her crate. Opie just kept going.  Grace realized her shame, and opie kept going like a pig in slop. 
               There are lots of things that can divide us – When to have church, drinking, smoking, trump, biden, or anyone else. 
Early church divided over food sacrificed to idols.
               So much fear mongering in politics. I’m pretty sure the bible describes politicians in 2tim 3:13
	The only thing that matters is what God thinks RE our actions, thoughts and beliefs.
               Story about watching grace through the window as getting in the garbage, but checking first to 
               see if anyone was watching. Grace KNEW I wouldn’t like it, chose to do it any way – punished. 
               Not fully convinced it’s wrong.
	The bible illuminates God’s thoughts. Scripture is called the cannon – reed – measuring stick. 
               Use it to measure our actions, our thoughts, and beliefs.
	Christian, If you read a scripture, and it doesn’t draw you to the Lord, or convict you, or have |
               some effect upon you, then perhaps you are not yet fully convinced of Christ!

Am I Doing this unto the Lord 6-9

	As we engage in different activities we need to evaluate why were doing them. 
		For I? Notoriety? Acclaim? Money? I is the root of every sin. I want, I don’t want. 
		For the Lord?
		Grace KNEW I would be displeased, but her motivation wasn’t to please me, but to do 
                             what she wanted in the moment.
	When you engage others in political arguments, is your desire to be right, or to see hearts and 
              minds changed?
		When you smoke, or drink, or gamble or any other vice, are you doing so for the Lord? 
		When you criticize others for dress, or anything they may do wrong – is it because you 
                             are so convinced of the lord and his glory that you can’t hold your tongue? Or for some 
                             other reason? – Rami and his ball cap. Holly rubbing Sarah’s hand in church. 
		The criticism they received was allegedly given out of a misplaced sense of doing it for 
                             the Lord. 
		Eg not being a distraction, and being respectful to the Lord, but in the end did their 
                             actions glorify God? Or did it drive people away from the Lord? God obviously can over 
                             come that. But as we learned from Jonah, were better off moving with God, than 
                             against him.
Will it Stand the Test Before God  10-12
Grace obviously didn’t know I was watching. I was on the other side of a wall, and watching her 
reflection in the window. But We know God is always watching. He knows our true motivations better than we can know them ourselves. Grace needs to change her thought process, its not what can I get away with; but what will honor my Master, and what he’s taught me. 

Hay and Stubble: Object lesson at the campground.
Do those things that matter. Focus on your relationship with God, seeing the lost redeemed, and discipled. Everything else will burn like grass in a fire
Will I cause others to stumble. 13-21 vs 20 – do not for the sake of food destroy the work of God.
	If God doesn’t specifically disprove of an action, if we have liberty to do a thing – there are still 
              times we ought to abstain.
	Someone else is struggling with a thing – then abstain. Food sacrificed to idols is an example 
              Paul gives. Some people were really worked up, and thought the sky was falling. 
	God had declared all food clean to Peter. Even food served to Idols. 
	Grace, by her example, caused opie to get in trouble as well. She got in the trash, and Opie
               joined right in.
	This is the classic scripture used to argue against Christians drinking. You may not be an 
               alcoholic, but we have alcoholics in our midst, and so while it may not be a sin for you to drink, 
               that alcoholic would be sinning to pick that bottle back up. So in deference to the weaker 
               brother, don’t eat or serve them meat sacrificed to idols. Don’t drink or endorse drinking in any 
               kind of way that might give them reason to drink again. I have a few cousins I’d never touch a bottle in front of. One passed on a few years back, larry, who was addicted to anything he could get his hands on. There were times though when he was trying really hard to be sober, and during those times it would have been sinful for me to drink with, or in view of larry. 
	The same can be said of the two stories I shared a minute ago. Holly was being a sweet little 
               sister, and trying to ease her sister pain in a very unobtrusive and discrete way. I was behind 
               them and didn’t see it. Did the womans condemnation of “distracting actions” during the 
               service draw either one closer to the Lord? Certainly not. Other than becoming a sermon 
               illustration, what Good did she accomplish?
	The same is true of the man who scolded Rami for the hat. The rejection he felt in that moment 
               was forever burned into his memory. What good was accomplished? Did it draw him closer to 
               the Lord? Certainly not! So consider your actions. 
	If I share that on facebook, how does that better reflect God? If I tell that story, is that meeting 
              my need for attention, or will it bring glory and honor to God? Will it draw people closer to the 
              Lord? Or could it be a stumbling block?
	The only kind of stumbling block I want to be is the kind that keeps people out of hell. Like Charles Spurgeon wrote: 
“If sinners be damned, at least let them leap to Hell over our dead bodies. And if they perish, let them perish with our arms wrapped about their knees, imploring them to stay. If Hell must be filled, let it be filled in the teeth of our exertions, and let not one go unwarned and unprayed for.”

In our mens bible study Thursday night Nik Ripken was writing about how there are only two teams. There is our Lords team, and our Lord’s enemies team. Which team do you play for? If our enemies goal is to keep Christians from sharing the gospel, then not sharing the gospel is following his plans. Its playing for the team of the enemy of our savior and our soul. 

Last week our verse said “choose this day whom you will serve”. Whether youre sharing the gospel or not – and honestly that’s between you and God – should tell you everything you need to know about which team you’re playing for. Which team you’re serving. Our Lord’s team, or his enemies team. 

“If sinners be damned, at least let them leap to Hell over our dead bodies. And if they perish, let them perish with our arms wrapped about their knees, imploring them to stay. If Hell must be filled, let it be filled in the teeth of our exertions, and let not one go unwarned and unprayed for.”

In a related note There has been some talk about us being small, and the natural expansion and contraction that happens in any church; and I want to speak to that. I don’t care how big we are, I care that we tell people about Jesus. If we’ve done that, and are doing that, we are a success. If we are being obedient to God in that then we are successful. Its up to God to draw people to church. Whoever is here today, is here because God drew them here for a purpose. Maybe that purpose is to start sharing the gospel with folks. Maybe that purpose is to hear and respond to the gospel. 


So as we close, are you fully convinced of the Lord? If the Lord were to return tonight, and we were standing in the presence of God – the one who holds our molecules together. The one who created the heavens and the earth. The God so big he is everywhere at once. Knows everything at once. The one who knows every thought you’ve ever had, and every thought you are having right now. There is no way to hide who you truly are from God – he KNOWS you. If he were to return tonight, and he were to ask you why he should let you into his heaven, would you be able to say because his son Jesus Christ saved you? If not, then that is the first step. Believe in Jesus, and you can have eternal life. Put your faith in Jesus, and you can spend eternity with him in Heaven. 
