1 Timothy 4:1-5 Interpretive Paper. 



















PRS6100 Bible Exposition I Online 
Hermeneutics and Preparation 
Spring 2020



















Ken Baker 000210914
4-12-20
Second Timothy 4:1-5
Second Timothy is an interesting book. There is much meat in it for those that look. We will be looking at the setting, the scripture and seeking to apply it to our lives. These five verses are one of the main things that Paul wanted to express to Timothy. They certainly warrant careful exegesis. 
2 Timothy 4:1-5 It seems to have been written at the twilight of Paul’s career, and certainly near the end of his life while imprisoned (2 Tim 4:6-8). Paul says he is being poured out (vs 6), and that his departure is at hand (vs 6), and that he has reached the end of his race (vs 7). In fact one commentator wrote: “Second Timothy is the last of Paul’s epistles. It was written from prison at Rome shortly before the apostle’s death. Paul had already had an initial hearing, at which time all of his friends deserted him (2 Tim 1:8, 16–17; 2:9; 4:16–17); but he was still awaiting the final hearing, which he expected to result in his martyrdom (2 Tim 4:6–8)”. It is a heavy thing to write a final letter to a dear friend. Paul had poured his life into Timothy, indeed Paul even refers to Timothy as his Son in the faith in 1 Timothy 1:2. Its interesting to note that at this point Paul had been abandoned by those he knew at his first defense (4:16). This is further seen in chapter 4 when Alexander the coppersmith did something that brought a lot of harm to Paul, and in chapter 1 where two more of Pauls compatriots fled his side. Perhaps they abandoned Paul out of fear for the emperor – a champion of persecution against the early church - Nero. Nero who the possibly apocryphal legend says fiddled while Rome burned. Nero who had his mother killed. Nero who used Christians and persecuted Christians heavily. The historian Tacitus “describes the excruciating torments inflicted on the Roman Christians by Nero. He says that they were subjected to the derision of the people; dressed in the skins of wild beasts, and exposed to be torn to pieces by dogs in the public games, that they were crucified, or condemned to be burnt; and at night-fall served in place of lamps to lighten the darkness, Nero’s own gardens being used for the spectacle”. Nero was no friend to the church. Perhaps those that fled Paul’s side did so despairing for their lives? Perhaps to be associated with Paul meant death. We cannot know the reasons in these men’s hearts. However in 68ad Nero’s tumultuous dynasty came to an ignominious end with his suicide. 
It was under these difficult circumstances that Paul wrote this letter both to Timothy and the church (4:22). Anchor Yale Bible Dictionary writes of Timothy that he was “A missionary associate, fellow worker, and trusted emissary of Paul over an extended period of time […] Many interpreters also see the phrase “apostles of Christ” (1 Thess 2:6) as including Timothy along with Paul (and Silas)”. Paul, and Timothy were long time associates, that had worked together, prayed together, and ministered side by side in the trenches of ministry. He is requested by name by Paul for his second missionary journey in Acts 16:2-3. Timothy labored among the Thessalonians (1 Thessalonians 3:2), and alongside Paul with the Corinthians (Acts 18:5), in Ephesus (1 Timothy 1:3) and in Rome (Romans 16:21).  
Paul thinks quite highly of Timothy, in fact Anchor Yale Bible Dictionary writes “Timothy is mentioned as the cosender [sic] in the prescripts of three letters Paul wrote from prison (Phil 1:1; Philemon 1; cf. Col 1:1). None of these letters implies that Timothy was also imprisoned. In Philippians the imprisoned Paul plans to send to them Timothy, about whom he says: “I have no one like him, who will be genuinely anxious for your welfare … Timothy’s worth you know, how as a son with a father he has served with me in the gospel” (2:20–22).” He seems to have been a lot like Paul, and even seems to have shared in Paul’s suffering as we know from Hebrews 13:23 that Timothy had spent some time in jail and was being released. Eusebius the historian records that ultimately he ended up being what the catholics would call a bishop over Ephesus – he writes “Timothy, indeed, is recorded as having first received the episcopate at Ephesus (εν Epheso παροικιας)”. Ultimately Timothy would die, and yet little is known about how that happened outside of the apocrypha. In the apocryphal acts of timothy, he boldly confronted some of the followers of Diana during a parade. This ultimately resulted in his death by stoning. A bold end for a man who has been accused by many commentators across the centuries of being timid and sickly. 
It is in this context that Paul writes with a sense of urgency, and paternal love for Timothy. Equally important he wanted Timothy to be equipped for his leadership role in the next age of the church. He starts chapter four with “I charge you” in Greek the word is “διαμαρτύρομαι”, the root of which is where we get our modern word “Martyr”. It means to bear witness, to exort, to testify, or to warn. Paul adds weight to this when he reminds Timothy of the presence of God, and Jesus Christ as Judge. Macarthur in his study bible wrote “The Gr. has the idea of issuing a forceful order or directive (cf. 2:14; 1Ti 1:18; 5:21)”. Put another way “to state something in such a way that the auditor is to be impressed with its seriousness.” Paul is indicating that what he is about to say is serious business. In modern parlance Paul could have said “its time to pay attention because the most important part of my letter is this”. Verse 2 then begins with “Preach”. The Greek word is κήρυξον which is in the aorist tense. A verb in the aorist active imperative tense voice and mood indicates it was to start at some point in the past and continue until it is complete. That we are to be active in working towards the completion of this task, and that this is not a task we can decline. This order to preach is given as though by a general to a recruit. Its an order without room for equivocation. When told to κήρυξον one must start, and not stop. It carries with it a sense of urgency, not only from the Greek word, but also from the context. The end of verse 1 explains things – Jesus will be judging the living and the dead. Eternity is at stake. Preach because eternity is a long time. Human beings only have this one short life to get it right. If a human doesn’t follow God, isn’t bought and paid for by Jesus, isn’t indwelt by the Holy Spirit, then they have only one option for their eternal destination. God uses preaching as a means to quicken peoples souls, to draw them to himself. Not just preaching from the pulpit, but preaching as the Christian goes about their daily life. Our very lives preach a message – if someone never had access to the bible, but only ever saw you and the way you live your life, would they know that you were different? Would their soul be pricked to repentance? Or would they be able to comfortably continue living their life bound for an eternity separate from God? Verse 2 says we are to be ready in season and out of season. In season in Greek is εὐκαίρως It is only used here and once in Mark in the new testament. And could be translated “to have leisure or opportunity”. Out of season in Greek is ἀκαίρως which could be translated to lack opportunity. “Timothy is not advised to disregard opportuneness, but to discharge his duty to those with whom he deals, whether it be welcome or not”. The command to preach brooks no opportunity for refusal. When you are ready to preach, preach. When you are not ready to preach, preach. When people want you to preach, preach. When people don’t want you to preach, preach any way. Because their eternity is on the line. What higher more perfectly fair and just price can a man pay than to spend an eternity in hell? To that end Paul calls Timothy to reprove, rebuke and exhort. The Greek word for reprove is ἔλεγξον, which means “to scrutinize or examine carefully, bring to light, expose, set forth” and also “to bring a pers. [sic] to the point of recognizing wrongdoing, convict, [and] convince someone”. The event of preaching, and the message we preach by the way we live our lives should call people to repentance. They should see in us something that makes them question their direction in life, they should see a reflection of the holiness of God in every word and deed. Additionally we should be intentional about preaching as an event. We must fulfill our task to make the Gospel known. The second word is related - ἐπιτίμησον, which translates into English as “to express strong disapproval of someone, rebuke, reprove, censure also speak seriously, warn in order to prevent an action or bring one to an end”. People in todays world tend to avoid rebuke. No one likes conflict nor the drama and aggravation that goes along with it. But its frequently absolutely necessary. Who wouldn’t hesitate to do whatever it takes, not even sparing their own body, to save a beloved child running blindly towards a cliff? Yet so often – even pastors allow grievous errors both moral and theological to persist in their midst. We must be ready to confront the things that must be confronted. We must be ready to rebuke – to speak seriously about, to warn, in an effort to prevent or bring an action to an end. God has commanded this through Paul. The third word is exhort which is παρακάλεσον in the Greek, and can translate to “ask to come and be present where the speaker is (or to) call to one’s side”. We are to be calling people to follow Christ along side us. Put together we are to carefully scrutinize, and shine the light of scripture upon those around us. Is this action or that action in accord with scripture? We musk ask is that thinking, or that decision, or that theology in alignment with our precious Savior? If not, we need to rebuke what has become errant. We need to warn them seriously to keep them from doing, or doing that thing again. More importantly we must be asking these things of ourselves. Because as we exhort people, or call them to come along side us, we have to be in a good spot in order for it to be worth anything. What point is there to calling people to walk with us if our destination isn’t Christ? If were not becoming more like Christ, if were not growing in our knowledge and understanding of our savior, in everything we do, we aren’t bringing glory to God through our action – then what is the point? If God isn’t glorified, then who? Frequently people think there are multiple facets to that answer; thinking that if they aren’t glorifying God, then perhaps they are glorifying themselves, or their business, or some other secondary pursuit. But the truth is, if it isn’t bringing glory to God, then there is only one other alternative. From a meta perspective there are only two possible masters, and one can only follow one of them, one can only bring glory and honor to one of them. If it isn’t God, you’re in dangerous territory. These tasks must be carried out with urgency in light of the eschatological language in vs 2. We must judge ourselves, and each other because one day Jesus is going to judge us; both the living and the dead. At the moment of your salvation Jesus purchased you back from the enemy. As the famous hymn says “we owed a debt we could not pay, and he paid a debt he did not owe”. At the moment we stand in front of Christ to be judged, will Jesus be happy with what he bought? Will your life, your story of redemption, your ministry to your family, to your friends, to your community result in your savior saying “Well done my good and faithful servant”? If not then changes need to be made today. Think about the time you’ve spent engaged in hobbies this week. Hobbies aren’t bad. But if hobbies consume your life than hobbies are an idol for you.  Anything we put a higher priority on than Christ is an idol. Anything we let stop us from engaging in the spiritual disciplines (reading the bible, praying, fellowship with believers, worship, and sharing the gospel) is an idol. If you say you don’t see enough people in a normal week to share the gospel with, then maybe you are too comfortable in your life and afraid to step out and share the life saving truth of Jesus. If that’s true for you, then maybe Comfort is your idol. In the old testament God takes great pleasure in striking at the heart of his peoples idols. Baal for instance was a “god” that his followers believed brought the rain. God responds by sending a 3 year drought in 2 Kings 17. If comfort is your idol, then be prepared because maybe God will strike at the heart of your idol. 

Word Biblical Commentary points out that verses 3 and 4 “spell out the reason for the seriousness of v 1 and the urgency of v 2”. Where verse three talks about rejecting sound doctrine, accumulating teachers that encourage them to embrace their passions sounds like today doesn’t it? Thousands of voices shouting about this or that. People rejecting the truth of the bible to live their best life now. To embrace the heresy of the prosperity gospel. To add this or that to salvation or drop this biblical requirement. People demanding Christians, and church especially bow to the forces of the world and culture. If you just compromise this principal or that principal, you’ll be popular. What does popularity matter if we lose sight of the real Gospel? Paul wanted to make sure Timothy never bowed to these pressures. A commentary writes “Paul knew the time would come when some of Timothy’s hearers would pay more attention to novelty and error than they would the truth. In these difficult situations, Timothy was to remain alert and carry out his responsibilities”. The love of the novelty of error is one area in which seminaries especially need to be on guard. In academia there is so much pressure to be novel that we run the risk of inventing or more likely unknowingly rediscovering some old heresy and touting its trash as treasure. People push for new tools and metrics, and lenses through which to view scripture. Many make convincing cases saying that their view reduces our current cultural bias. But at the end of the day what we are usually left with is the same old nonsense, re-wrapped in new Christmas paper. The same old tombs freshly whitewashed. Robert Hawker the author of a number of bible commentaries wrote back in the 1750s that “when the Apostle spake of a time that would come, when men would not endure sound doctrine, he then spake of a distant day. But if we consider the signs of the present time, that day is actually come. Surely it is impossible for any child in grace, to contemplate the circumstances going on in the Churches professing godliness, and where the Gospel is repeatedly said to be preached; without being struck with the most palpable conviction, that men do not endure sound doctrine, but, after their own lusts, are heaping to themselves teachers having itching ears.” Our approach to remedy this is to follow Paul’s pattern; shine a light on it, rebuke it, and exhort those who were deceived by it. Not only in times when we are prepared and ready for it. But also and perhaps more importantly when we aren’t ready, or the people don’t want to hear it. Its not likely 21st century America that We will end up martyred like Timothy after confronting the followers of Diana. However, many of our brothers and sisters serving in sensitive contexts may, and they must remember the words of Tertullian “the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church”. They must remember that their lives will not have been poured out in vain. For us in a western context though the worst thing that is likely to happen is to lose contact with an individual. One such tragic situation comes to mind, where parents were asked to do just that. Their daughter had left her husband for another woman. The church was scandalized. Her children were devastated. After a year of trying to work with this woman, the elders convened a joint board meeting between the elders and deacons, and called for a vote to exercise the final step of church discipline. Heartbreakingly her father was an elder. He ultimately chose to vote in favor of church discipline for his daughter. To my knowledge they never spoke again before his death. This is a real risk when we engage in Paul’s commands to reprove, rebuke, and exhort. 
Verse 5 contrasts the present trends with the course to be followed, as the charge is concluded. Paul tells Timothy he must be sober minded (ESV), the greek word is νῆφε and it can be translated as “literally be sober, opposite μεθύω (be intoxicated); figuratively in the NT, of being free from every form of mental and spiritual excess and confusion be self-controlled, be clear-headed, be self-possessed”. Once again the Greek communicates more in a word, than we can easily communicate in a sentence. In saying be sober-minded Paul is encouraging Timothy not to be over indulgent in alcohol. But that’s not all. If we only read sober-minded one might stop there, yet the Greek continues on. Free from mental excess calls to mind the athlete who has defeated himself before he ever competes. In common parlance one would say such a person is in their own head. Paul is saying don’t over think things, don’t over spiritualize things, don’t embrace confusion, and in all things be self-controlled. The final command wrapped up in that one word seems to be widely forgotten about today. Ten minutes of social media and you’ll see exactly what Paul is warning against. There was a discussion in response to a Baptist article some time back where people – professing Christians – were taking swings at each others character. The original subject was long forgotten, neither man could be described as sober-minded. Both even shamed themselves by using profanity as part of their ad hominem attack on the other. If both could have maintained their sober-mindedness then the conversation could have had some lasting value to those that encountered the thread later. Instead, because of their lack, they made Christians look bad. Reproof, rebuke, and exhortation does not in any way resemble a character assassination. Biblical reproof, rebuke, and exhortation is always tempered with sober-mindedness rooted in love (Eph 4:15). If we truly care for the souls of the lost, we must set a high standard in our disagreements, in our rebuke, in our reproof, and in our exhortations. If we give away the biblical moral high ground, we have given up the battle before it ever had a chance to start. It has become a cliché, and yet is no less true in many contexts that “you might be the only bible someone ever reads”.  If a lost persons only exposure to Christians were name calling, and ad hominem attacks what use does the world have for that? They’ve done it more, and longer and better or at least as competently as we have within the walls of the church. Lack of sober-mindedness manifests in other ways too. Lack of sober-mindedness could manifest as spending more time on a videogame than on reading your bible, or more time reading and watching stories about covid-19 than time spent on spiritual disciplines! Be informed, but don’t be obsessed. Neither allow your ministry to be merely in the pulpit. Pastors must go through life with people. Spend time with them at their homes, over meals, and helping with their chores. It strikes me that most missionaries are quick to come alongside a person to help with his chores – whether they be home repairs, or lawn work, or gardening. But seldom do pastors talk about such things. Missionaries know that ministry happens Monday through Saturday outside the four walls of the church just as easily, and perhaps more effectively than it does in an hour on Sunday. Robert Hawker writes “what watchings do those men go through, for the souls of the people, who know nothing of the doubts, and fears, and spiritual distresses, of exercised believers? What full proof can they give of their ministry, whose services are confined to the pulpit?” Be mindful of the fact that one day you’ll be standing face to face with Jesus who will be judging the quick and the dead. Will Jesus be pleased? Will His investment in blood, in you have been sound? Paul desires the answer to be a resounding yes for Timothy, and for us today as well. 


Bibliography
Friberg, Timothy, Barbara Friberg, and Neva F. Miller. Analytical Lexicon of the Greek New Testament. Baker’s Greek New Testament Library. Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Books, 2000.

Freedman, David Noel, Gary A. Herion, David F. Graf, John David Pleins, and Astrid B. Beck, eds. The Anchor Yale Bible Dictionary. New York: Doubleday, 1992.

Lightfoot, J. B., Clement of Rome. The Apostolic Fathers, Part I: S. Clement of Rome: A Revised Text with Introductions, Notes, Dissertations, and Translations. Second Edition. Vol. 1. London; New York: Macmillan and Co., 1890.

Lightfoot, J. B. with Clement of Rome. The Apostolic Fathers, Part I: S. Clement of Rome: Introductions, Notes and Dissertations. Vol. 2. London; New York: Macmillan and Co., 1890.

Lightfoot, J. B. with Ignatius and Polycarp. The Apostolic Fathers, Part II: S. Ignatius, S. Polycarp: Revised Texts with Introductions, Notes, Dissertations, and Translations. Second Edition. Vol. 1. London; New York: Macmillan and Co., 1889.

Elwell, Walter A., and Barry J. Beitzel. Baker Encyclopedia of the Bible. Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Book House, 1988.

Water, Mark. The Christian Book of Records. Alresford, Hants, UK: John Hunt Pub., 2002.

Eusebius of Caesarea. An Ecclesiastical History to the 20th Year of the Reign of Constantine. London: Samuel Bagster and Sons, 1847.

The Holy Bible: English Standard Version. Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles, 2016.

Leschert, Dale. The Flow of the New Testament. Fearn, Great Britain: Christian Focus Publications, 2002.

Arndt, William, Frederick W. Danker, Walter Bauer, and F. Wilbur Gingrich. A Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament and Other Early Christian Literature. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2000.

Bromiley, Geoffrey W., ed. The International Standard Bible Encyclopedia, Revised. Wm. B. Eerdmans, 1979–1988.

International Standard Version. Yorba Linda, CA: ISV Foundation, 2011.

Tranquillus, C. Suetonius. Suetonius: The Lives of the Twelve Caesars; An English Translation, Augmented with the Biographies of Contemporary Statesmen, Orators, Poets, and Other Associates. Edited by Alexander Thomson. Medford, MA: Gebbie & Co., 1889.

MacArthur, John F., Jr. The MacArthur Study Bible: New American Standard Bible. Nashville, TN: Thomas Nelson Publishers, 2006.

Nestle, Eberhard, Erwin Nestle, Barbara Aland, Kurt Aland, Johannes Karavidopoulos, Carlo M. Martini, and Bruce M. Metzger. The Greek New Testament. 27th ed. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft, 1993.

Aland, Kurt, Barbara Aland, Johannes Karavidopoulos, Carlo M. Martini, and Bruce M. Metzger. Novum Testamentum Graece. 28th Edition. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft, 2012.

New American Standard Bible: 1995 Update. La Habra, CA: The Lockman Foundation, 1995.

Wood, D. R. W., and I. Howard Marshall. New Bible Dictionary. Leicester, England; Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press, 1996.

The New International Version. Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan, 2011.

Lea, Thomas D., and David Alan Black. The New Testament: Its Background and Message. 2nd ed. Nashville, TN: Broadman & Holman Publishers, 2003.

Utley, Robert James. Paul’s Fourth Missionary Journey: I Timothy, Titus, II Timothy. Vol. Volume 9. Study Guide Commentary Series. Marshall, Texas: Bible Lessons International, 2000.

Hawker, Robert. Poor Man’s New Testament Commentary: Philippians–Revelation. Vol. 3. Bellingham, WA: Logos Bible Software, 2013.

Sproul, R. C., ed. The Reformation Study Bible: English Standard Version (2015 Edition). Orlando, FL: Reformation Trust, 2015.

Pentz, Croft M. Sermon Outlines on the Epistles: Galatians–II Timothy. Dollar Sermon Library Series. Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Book House, 1971.

Elwell, Walter A., and Philip Wesley Comfort. Tyndale Bible Dictionary. Tyndale Reference Library. Wheaton, IL: Tyndale House Publishers, 2001.

Vincent, Marvin Richardson. Word Studies in the New Testament. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1887.

               Berchie, Daniel. n.d. “2 TIMOTHY 4:14: REPAYING THE ENEMY IN GHANAIAN 
       CONTEXT,” 10.

       Berding, Kenneth. n.d. “POLYCARP OF SMYRNA’S VIEW OF THE AUTHORSHIP OF 
       1 AND 2 TIMOTHY,” 13. https://doi.org/10/dhn9t2.

               Couser, Greg A. 2019. “The Believer’s Judgment in 2 Timothy, Part 1.” Bibliotheca Sacra   
       176 (703): 312–26. https://search-ebscohost-com.ezproxy.sebts.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lsdar&AN=ATLAi5IE190924000537&si
te=ehost-live&scope=site.

      Discourse Analysis and Other Topics in Biblical Greek. 1995. Bloomsbury Academic. 
https://doi.org/10.5040/9781474266673;http://web.archive.org/web/20200410140256/https://www.bloomsburycollections.com/book/discourse-analysis-and-other-topics-in-biblical-greek/.

     Downs. 2012. “Faith(Fulness) in Christ Jesus in 2 Timothy 3:15.” Journal of Biblical   
     Literature 131 (1): 143. https://doi.org/10/ggrm2t.

     Hutson. 1997. “Was Timothy Timid? On the Rhetoric of Fearlessness (1 Corinthians 16:10-
     11) and Cowardice (2 Timothy 1:7).” Biblical Research 42: 58–73.

     MaGee, Gregory S. 2008. “Paul’s Response to the Shame and Pain of Imprisonment in 2    
     Timothy.” Bibliotheca Sacra 165 (659): 338–53. https://search-ebscohost-com.ezproxy.sebts.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lsdar&AN=ATLA0001666747&site=ehost-live&scope=site.

     Murphy-O’Connor, Jerome. 1991. “2 TIMOTHY CONTRASTED WITH 1 TIMOTHY AND 
     TITUS.” Revue Biblique 98 (3): 403–18. https://search-ebscohost-com.ezproxy.sebts.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lsdar&AN=ATLA0000860386&site=ehost-live&scope=site.

     Polythress, Vern Sheridan. 2002. “The Meaning of Μάλιστα in 2 Timothy 4:13 and Related  
     Verses.” The Journal of Theological Studies 53 (3): 523–32. https://search-ebscohost-
com.ezproxy.sebts.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lsdar&AN=ATLA0001390712&site=ehost-live&scope=site.

     Thornton, Dillon T. 2016. Hostility in the House of God: An Investigation of the Opponents in 
     1 and 2 Timothy. Bulletin for Biblical Research Supplements 15. Winona Lake, IN: 
     Eisenbrauns.

Exported from Logos Bible Software, and Zotero 2:27 AM April 11, 2020.