Joeseph
It strikes me that yet again we see the same old problem popping up. It happens over and over and over through scripture, and often when we see it it’s a tip off that there is something else going on. That perhaps this text is also going to point to Christ like so many of the others that we’ve talked about over the years. 

I like finding these passages where one of the people is a pointer to Christ. Before we open our bibles, lets take a minute and describe some of the things that happened in christs life. Obviously all of these aren’t going to carry over. It’s a correlation, not an exact copy right? I made a small list. 

For one thing God loved Christ dearly. John 15:9 says this: John 15:9 As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love.  If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father’s commandments and abide in his love. Jesus loved us enough to die on the cross for our sins, if God loves jesus as much as jesus loves us, that’s a pretty fierce love. A love that will go to death for you, will go to the ends of the earth for you as well. That means any thing Jesus says about Gods love for us, is also true of God’s love for Christ. That makes me think of music – we all know love songs where the guy swears he’d climb any mountain, cross any river, or do anything he had to for the woman he loves. The difference here is God through Christ accomplished more than those songs and songwriters could have ever imagined. They may have promised those things, but Christ did them and more. God did them and more. 

Another thing that occurred to me – and I’m trying to think of things perhaps you guys wouldn’t have – God speaks to Christ publicly declaring his affection for Christ. There are a few times, but the one that sticks out in my mind is when Jesus was baptized – Mt 3:16 and 17 - 16 As soon as Jesus was baptized, he went up out of the water. At that moment heaven was opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting on him. 17 And a voice from heaven said, “This is my Son, whom I love; with him I am well pleased.”
Another aspect is that Jesus threatened the established leaders power. The Pharisees had brokered sort of an uneasy peace with Rome. They were allowed to retain semblances of control and power, but they had to keep their people in line. When their people started following Christ instead they began to lose their grip on the people, and thus their authority in the eyes of rome, and thus their income, their prestige, their influence, and maybe even their lives. The whole country had sort of divided up into two camps – lets call them the Jesus part, and the Pharisee Party. But your average roman with a sword isn’t going to know the difference, isn’t going to care the difference. Caiphas knew that when rome came that many lives would be lost as well. Which is why he says in vs 50 of the same passage “You do not realize that it is better for you that one man die for the people than that the whole nation perish.”. This Gospel truth spoken admist a conspiracy to kill Jesus was never more true than when Christ died on the Cross. He died there once and for all, defeating sin, and death, and hell and satan. Rose again three days later and brought salvation to the world. Caiphas was more right than he knew – it was better for us, that Christ should die, but through Christ, we could all have life. 

There are a few more, and then we will get to the text. See if you recognize any of these, or any others in our story tonight. 
Because of their jealousy and the threat to their power, people tried to kill him. Vs 53 of this same passage says regarding Christ that  “53So from that day on they plotted to take his life.”

Christ was sent to save the very people that rejected him! Psalm 118, and again in Mathew 21 this is talked about. Jesus is the stone that the builders rejected, that became the corner stone. Someone read that. Mt 21:42. Who were the builders? The Pharisees? Yet through his life, death, burial and resurrection he became the cornerstone of the salvation of everyone. 

He was persecuted – mocked, humiliated, beaten, tempted, sold as a slave, and finally exalted at the right hand of the father. 

Now lets read todays passage. Its going to be Genesis 37:1-4 – keep your finger there, I’m going to need you guys to do some more reading for me this morning. 

Already we see some some paralells do we not? 

The first thing we talked about with Christ was that his Father loved him very much! Likewise we see with Joseph that his father loved him very much – to the point where everyone knew Joeseph was the favorite. Its hard to deal with parental favoroutism. I knew a girl at School that had to deal with this. She grew up in Hawaii – which is a place we need to keep in our prayers right now. All those peoples lives upended by the volcano. Any way this girl grew up in Hawaii, she had a brother that was a year or so older than her. For his sixteenth birthday her parents went out and bought the 2004 ford f150, king ranch edition, with leather seats, heat, and air, premium sound, they bought him the high end rims, and had a cup warmer installed after market so his coffee would be warm on his way to high school every morning. They went all out. Even bought the seat warmers. For… hawaaii… how does that even make sense!? Any way, my friend, as her 16th birthday rolled around tried to downplay the excitement, she didn’t figure she’d get a brand new car, but maybe a used beater. You know? An old beat up pick up truck, or a worn out Honda. She even made sure she had her drivers license before her birthday that way she could drive whatever they got her right away. She was pretty excited the morning of her birthday. They handed her a small envelope. She thought for sure it would contain a car key… To her surprise when she opened it, there was a braided hemp bracelet with a garage sale sticker price on it of 1 $. Needless to say, she was disappointed. Fortunately she didn’t try to kill her brother like what we will see in our passage this morning. But imagine what that would be like, how that favouritism would feel – a lavish ornate, cloak of authority. While you struggle cleaning up after the sheep. 

The cloak was interesting because the style of the day for such a cloak would have been a thing cut impractically for work. You wouldn’t have been able to wear this thing and do any work. Its clear that it was a public declaration of affection from Jacob to Joseph. Like God did for Christ. That caused jealousy in his family. 

OK jump down to verse 11. 

So his brothers were jealous and hatched a plan. Have you guys seen any similarities so far to Christ? Name  a few for me. Very good. 

Lets read vs 17-18
Josephs brothers were so jealous and threatened by him, they grew to hate him so much that they decided to conspire to kill him. Sound familiar? If joseph is like jesus in this story, who are his brothers like? The Pharisees.  That coat of joesephs also entitled him to a double share – the first borns share of the inheritance. Jacob was a ridiculously wealthy man. It would be like bill gates if he had any kids. He could write them each a check for a billion dollars and not bat an eye. They could have lived wealthy and comfortable lives on their single portion of the inheritance. But they were greedy no? Greed is wanting more. They were jealous – jealousy is saying “I want yours”, and they were envious – envy is saying “I don’t want you to have whats yours”. They apparently didn’t want the cloak itself. They just didn’t want joseph to have the power, and authority, and wealth it symbolized. Those three sins weren’t the only ones. They obviously wanted to murder, and conspired to murder their brother. Then they finally ended up selling him into slavery for a few bits of silver. 

Vs 23-24 talks about being him being stripped of his robe, stripped of his rightful treatment, stripped of his inheritance, and tossed into a pit empty of water. 

You know it mentions being empty of water, but it doesn’t mention being empty of other critters. Seems to me in a hot dessert like that, critters might want to get into the shade the well would have offered during certain parts of the day. If I were a snake, or a scorpion. I might be inclined to spend part of my day in the cool shade of the pit. 

Vs 28-34. 
They add lying to the sins they have committed. In order to sell the lie, they killed one of their fathers grazing animals, and poured its blood over josephs coat, and then they took it to their father to identify. I love their approach. They act unsure. Maybe, could it be? Is it possibly the coat we’ve hated and loathed for so long? They knew! They just wanted to deceive their dad. 

Alright, so name off some more of the parralells, the similarities between Christ, and Joseph, has anyone picked up any more? Good. 

It strikes me that all this strife came back to Jacobs father in law’s deception, and Jacob allowing their to continue to be all of this tension, and rivalry in his home. We never hear of any trouble between leah and Rachel before they marry the same man. After wards, all we see is strife – a house divided. How much grief could have been avoided could have been avoided if the two womens tension could have been settled. 

How much I wonder did leah share with her kids about the way her sister made her feel? How much of this trouble went back to Leah poisoning the proverbial well? Its hard to say. But we have all known people that would do that don’t we? People that would try to spin their web, try to draw people into their side of the argument. 

But the word of God says blessed are the peacemakers. In proverbs 16 it says A perverse person stirs up conflict, and a gossip separates close friends.
Godly leadership in the home is important. How do you know that you’re leading your family in a godly way? By reading your bible. By praying, by going to church. Scripture says as iron sharpens iron so one man, or one believer sharpens another. By spending time together we are better equipped to face the tensions of the world. By spending time with the Lord we are better equipped to fight the evil advances of our enemy. If we don’t, were like the soldier that goes to war without his sword and shield. The Spartans had a saying – come back with your shield or on it. It was a way of saying that they should be prepared to fight or die trying. How silly is it to think of a soldier going to battle un-prepared. But how are we any different when we don’t spend time with the Lord on a daily basis. 

How are you guys doing with that? Has anyone managed to read every day this week? What about 6 days? 5?

Well this coming week is another week. I know you guys are going to make it this week!  

For those of you who haven’t signed the commitment, its up on the bulletin board, you are more than welcome to join in. We are committing to reading through the bible together, and I’ll be preaching along side your reading for the next year. 

But all of this starts with a relationship with Jesus. 

Gospel