John 6:43-65
Lets turn in our bibles to John chapter 6. We will start in vs43.

While you are turning there, This is the second week were talking about the five sola’s of the reformation on the five hundredth anniversary of Martin Luthers hammer strikes on the door of the wittenburg church. Last week we talked about sola scriptura or the biblical idea that the bible is no only relevant for us today, but has a divinely protected and perfect message for us. 

This week we are venturing into sola gracia or by grace alone. Perhaps you’ve heard the old hymn “Every promise we can make Every prayer and step of faith Every difference we will make is only by His grace. Every mountain we will climb Every ray of hope we shine Every blessing left behind is only by His grace Grace alone which God supplies Strength unknown He will provide Christ in us, our cornerstone We willl go forth in grace alone. Every soul we long to reach Every hearth we hope to teach Everywhere we share His peace is only by His grace Every loving word we say Every tear we wipe away Every sorrow turned to praise is only by His grace Grace alone which God supplies Strength unknown He will provide Christ in us, our cornerstone We willl go forth in grace alone. Grace alone which God supplies Strength unknown He will provide Christ in us, our cornerstone We willl go forth in grace alone. Grace alone which God supplies Strength unknown He will provide Christ in us, our cornerstone We willl go forth in grace alone. We willl go forth in grace alone.


This message is mostly centered around Sola Gracia, but it necessitates we look at our own condition first. So lets start there. 

What is man capable of? To answer that I think we need to look at mans condition. We won’t be turning there but I’ll summarize eph 2 for you. It says we are dead in sin, followers of the world. Followers of the devil. Sons of disobedience. Subservient to the passions of our flesh. Carrying out the desire of the flesh. By nature we are children of wrath, it says we are separated from Christ due to our sin, that are alienated, hostile, slaves to the law. Think about that. What can a dead body do on its own? Absolutely nothing. We have horror shows in our culture that prove this. We are fascinated with this idea of the dead rising up and attacking the living. The dead walking down streets, the dead eating peoples brains. Millions of dollars each year are made scaring people based around this concept of the walking dead. Yet is not this exactly how we are apart from Christ? Jesus said as much in our passage tonight. Vs 44 no one can come to me unless the father who sent me draws him. Again in vs 65, Jesus says “this is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the father. Apart from God what we have to offer is what? Zilch. Zero. Zip. Nadda. Nothing. We have nothing apart from the grace and mercy of God we are a dead body. Walking around. A famous preacher of the great awakening said this “You contribute nothing to your salvation except the sin that made it necessary!” Jonathan Edwards. 

The only thing we bring to the table is need. I saw an interview with R.C. Sproul – hes a pastor out of Orlando. He said he had been talking with a man, and outright asked him if he loved God as much as he thought he ought to. Now in truth, no one can say yes to this. If you think you do, I challenge you to look squarely into scripture and find your reflection because I promise you what you will see is just how far short we all fall from loving God like we ought. So we are dead in our trespasses, children of wrath. Apart from Christ we can’t do anything good right? So by doing evil can anyone do anything good? Because of our choice to sin, we have selected a nature that prevents us from even willingly following Christ of our own choice. We can’t get away from it, we can’t over come it, by turning our lives around we can’t escape even then. We are dead, and what can a dead body do? 

But that is where Christ comes in. Before we can even follow him, he has to do a work in us. Before we even have an interest in following Christ, he’s already been at work on our hearts. This is the beginnings of grace. When governed by our own ambitions we spurn Christ, but he works on our hearts so that we can accept him. 

We as a result of choosing to sin, also chose to separate ourselves from God. If our earthly life comes to an end, and we are still in that same condition what happens to us? Well if we die separate from God, we remain separate from God into eternity. In short we choose Hell. 

Want to hear something scary? Let me start by asking you this: Is your relationship with God marked by obedience rooted in faith? I heard a guy preach recently that being a Christian in the bible belt is dangerous. Because going to church is easy. Its easy to bring a dish to a pot luck. Its easy to stay late and vacuum – and I am glad some of you do! – its easy to go to Sunday school, and bible study, and its easy to look real good, and still be as lost as a goat. Lost as a tare, lost as chaff amongst the wheat. So is your relationship with God marked by obedience and rooted in faith? Because if not, If you are making no movement, if there are no marks of obedience to God in your life, you are not a Christian you should consider yourself lost and in danger of damnation. 
You might think that’s hard, or mean spirited or cruel. But I think its more cruel to allow you to choose hell without being warned. I think its mean spirited not to share the gospel with people!

Instead we should follow the example of Billy Sunday. Are you familiar with him? He was a locally famous preacher down in Ybor City. He would go around sharing the gospel with people, preaching on street corners, and basically anyone that would sit still long enough would hear the gospel. This is what he said, what Billy Sunday said:” I’m against sin. I’ll kick it as long as I have a foot. I’ll fight it as long as I have a fist. I’ll butt it as long as I have a head. I’ll bite it as long as I’ve got a tooth. And when I’m old and fistless and footless and toothless, I’ll gum it till I go home to Glory and it goes home to perdition”.

Does God expect us to be perfect? No. He provided the cross for that. He expects us to try to meet his standard. To push through and even though we trip and fall we keep getting backup and pressing forward time and time and time again. If we were all perfect and faultless Godwouldn’t have had to send his son to die! But we are anything but perfect, and God loved us anyway. So he sent his son to die on the cross for us. 

I have this mental picture. I don’t know about you guys when you were kids, or your kids or grandkids, but when my sister and I were kids, and indeed her kids now, they just absolutely love to pile on to you, and let you drag them around. Wyley loves to lay on the floor and hold on to your ankles while you try to walk. Lilly and violet, they sit on top of your shoe and wrap their arms and legs about your ankle. My niece paris loves to jump on my back when I’m not paying attention and wrap her arms about my neck and just dangle there. One at a time, its not so bad, you can kind of struggle along. But when ALL of them are hanging on to you, dragging on the floor, sitting on your feet, and hanging from your neck, it becomes really hard to move. I still can. But when I am entangled with those kids, its hard to push forward. Its easy to stumble, its easy to fall. Its easy to get tripped up by an extra couple hundred pounds of kids dangling off you. But is it not the same with sin? Without the work of Christ in your heart you don’t even try. Those that don’t even try should consider themselves lost. So many people in the cultural south are Christians not because they follow Christ but because perceived social benefits.
The Scripture does not say you must be better, scripture says you must be born again!

The Baptist Faith and Message says on the topic of grace:
V. God's Purpose of Grace
Election is the gracious purpose of God, according to which He regenerates, justifies, sanctifies, and glorifies sinners. It is consistent with the free agency of man, and comprehends all the means in connection with the end. It is the glorious display of God's sovereign goodness, and is infinitely wise, holy, and unchangeable. It excludes boasting and promotes humility.
All true believers endure to the end. Those whom God has accepted in Christ, and sanctified by His Spirit, will never fall away from the state of grace, but shall persevere to the end. 

Finally the famous Baptist Preacher of the last century James Petigrew Boyce wrote this: “3. Grace alone. The words sola gratia mean that human beings have no claim upon God. That is, God owes us nothing except just punishment for our many and very willful sins. Therefore, if he does save sinners, which he does in the case of some but not all, it is only because it pleases him to do it. Indeed, apart from this grace and the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit that flows from it, no one would be saved, since in our lost condition, human beings are not capable of winning, seeking out, or even cooperating with God's grace. By insisting on "grace alone" the Reformers were denying that human methods, techniques, or strategies in themselves could ever bring anyone to faith. It is grace alone expressed through the supernatural work of the Holy Spirit that brings us to Christ, releasing us from our bondage to sin and raising us from death to spiritual life.
So God owes us nothing. Absolutely nothing. What we deserve is eternity separated from him, but those of us who are believers in Jesus Christ he has chos0e to save. Like Ephesians 2:8-9 says “for its by grace you have been saved, through faith, and this not of yourself it’s the gift of God, lest any man should boast” when God intercedes on our behalf it is an undeserved blessing. If you ask him and mean it, you will be saved scripture says. 


Perhaps you are here tonight, and have never made that decision. Tonight’s the night!
