We are entering into week three of our look at the Sola’s of the reformation, So far we have looked at Sola Gratia, or grace alone. Which means that there is nothing we can do to earn it. You cant buy it from the church, you can’t be given it by the pope or any man or institution of man. Salvation comes from God through Grace alone. The second week we talked about faith alone – which God supplies. We all receive a certain measure of faith from God, and in part faith stems from knowing God. We serve an awesome God! This week we are going to talk about Christ alone. 

Our passage today is 1 tim 2:1-7 if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have. 

While you’re turning there lets talk about our people group of the week. ____

Lets read. 

The whole of the bible points to Christ! The old testament points to a Christ yet to come, the gospels point to Christ while he was Bodily here as a human, fully man in every way, and yet wonderfully fully God. The rest of the new testament points back to Christ’s time here. Christ is in all the scripture says Jc Ryle In every part of both Testaments Christ is to be found — dimly and indistinctly at the beginning, more clearly and plainly in the middle, fully and completely at the end — but really and substantially everywhere. Many people forget the Old Testament in its main emphasis points forward to Christ, the Gospel’s discuss Christ, and the rest of the new testament points back to Christ. 
Christ's sacrifice and death for sinners, and Christ's kingdom and future glory, are the light we must bring to bear on any book of Scripture we read. Christ's cross and Christ's crown are the clue we must hold fast — if we would find our way through Scripture difficulties. Christ is the only key which will unlock many of the dark places of the Word. Some people complain that they do not understand the Bible. And the reason is very simple. They do not use the key. To them the Bible is like the hieroglyphics in Egypt. It is a mystery, just because they do not know and employ the key.

Our passage today reminds us to be in prayer for our leaders. Prayer for the kings and all those in authority. With the election coming up in a few days, we should be praying for Trump, Praying for biden, and everyone else in between, even our local leaders need to be upheld in prayer. One guy we should have done some more praying for is Mike Fasano. He recently supported abortion, by supporting Joe Biden. Joe, and Harris together make for the most pro-abortion ticket that has ever been, between the two of them they support aborting babies after they are born. How sickening? We must be in prayer for our leaders. That they make good decisions on behalf of our country. 

Fortunately, though Obama, or Trump, or Joe Biden, or Kamala Harris be president, Christ is always King. They, and we will have to give an account one day for our actions and our votes. 

Christ as King is one of three roles of Christ in scripture. He is our Prophet, our Priest and our King. We will talk a little about all three of those today, but first lets talk a little bit about why Sola Christus was necessary. Martin Luther writes …The devil does not intend to allow this testimony about Christ.  He devotes all his energy to opposing it and will not desist until he has struck it down and suppressed it.  In this respect, we humans are weak and stubbornly perverse and are more likely to become attached to saints than to Christ.  Within the papacy they have preached about the service rendered by these beloved saints, that one ought to rely on their merit.”

That is to say that the catholics of that day would argue that the saints merit could facilitate ones own journey to Christ. There are a few problems with that, anyone see them? For starters, we talked about a few weeks back that we are like corpses apart from the rejuvenating work of the holy spirit. Can we do anything apart from Christ on our own? Certainly not. Can a corpse bathe it self? Ridiculous. Apart from Christ we are the corpse that trys to bathe itself. So its not specifically your journey, it’s a journey you are on that Christ initiates in you. Secondly preaching the Gospel AND anything is dangerous ground. We’ve talked about the gospel a hundred times in here, hopefully you guys could share Christ just from memory of what you’ve heard from this pulpit. So you know what scripture says about sin, and what we are due, and what Christ did to prevent us from getting our well deserved punishment. Tell me, where in scripture does paul say confess with your mouth, receive aid from the saints and believe in your heart? Certainly he never does, and there are a number of stern warnings about those who would add such things to the Gospel. Gal 1:8 for instance says “But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach a gospel other than the one we preached to you, let them be under God's curse!”. Stern and needed warning indeed. 

Luther writes “And I, too, believed and preached thus.  St. Ann was my idol, and St. Thomas my apostle.  I patterned myself substantially after them.  Others ran to St. James and strongly believed and firmly trusted that, if they conformed, they would received all they wished and hoped for.  Prayers were said to St. Barbara and St. Christopher in order to avert an early and sudden death, and there was no uncertainty here.  So completely is man by nature bent on renouncing this testimony of John the Baptist.”

I spent some time in europe in 2009, and while I was there, I went around to a number of the cathedrals, and famous churches from history. One of the things that struck me, as you walk into these places is that the majority of their focus is on the saints, or on mary. The first cathedral we walked into, in France, was called Sacre Coure, or the sacred heart. It was originally going to be dedicated to the heart of Christ, but ultimately it became dedicated to the sacred heart of paris. SO were starting out on shaky ground any way. But the reason we went, is because it is the highest point in the city. The hill the church is on, is taller than the eiffle tower. Once you get to the cathedral, you pay an additional 6 bucks, and climb and additional 300 steps to the top of the dome. It’s a beautiful sight. But it wasn’t the scenic vista that stuck with me. As soon as you walk in the door, to your left, is a series of tables that were set up. So to Christopher, or james, or john, one to Jesus, and one to Mary. Most of the tables had lit candles burning on top of them. Most of the tables had a good number of candles. Two stuck out. First was Jesus table, it had 3 candles on it. Second was mary’s table. She had two tables, stuck together, absolutely covered, can’t get another candle on it if you wanted to. The catholic church is more concerned with these saints, than with Jesus, More concerned with Jesus mother, than with Jesus. 
Folks, I have news for you, just in case any of you were confused. St. Peter is dead. His body rotten and gone. But his soul endures forever in heaven with God. In fact, if you take a thorough look at scripture you see Peter refusing the types of attention catholics, especially in Europe shower upon him. Tables set up to light candles, to represent prayers being said to peter. People. Peter doesn’t answer your prayers. You’re praying to a stick, or a blob of wax and wick. Its no better than when people prayed to baal, also usually portrayed with wood (which makes him a stick). What can a stick do for you?! Any way. Peter in acts 10 refuses the worship of Cornelius by saying am I not also a man? Peter basically says hey, save that stuff for God. I don’t want it, I don’t merit it. I’m just a fallen man like you. Give that to Christ!

Secondarily they believed that the priest had a special relationship with God. That allowed them to be the mediator between men and God. To a point some of this is still held to today. Do you see where I’m going with this? Catholics believed in going to the priest and confessing their sin. The priest would then offer absolution of their sin if the person were to say so many hail marys, or give a tithe, or whatever other thing he picks from his list. But who is able to forgive sin? Only God & Christ’s work on the cross. Who is able to mediate between God and man? Scripture says there is only one mediator. For there is one God and one mediator between God and mankind, the man Christ Jesus, 1 timothy 2:5. SO how can a priest mediate between God and man? How can a priest absolve sin? That’s a kings Job. Or we could look at John 14:66 Jesus answered, “I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.

There is only one way to heaven, and Jesus says that’s through him. If Jesus says it, I believe it. If the Bible, God’s word says it I believe it, so there is only one way to heaven.  This is the King’s job. 

Back in the times of Kings, they would hold “court”. People would come from far and wide to seek the kings decision on things. Remember the story of the two women fighting over the baby? Both had babies the same night, in the same house, and ones baby lived, while the others died. So the mother who lost her baby stole the other mothers baby and replaced him with her dead child. 

Solomon ultimately decided who would get to keep the baby. It is the job of a King to make the judgement about guilt and sin. Likewise today, I read that Obama in 2016 granted clemency to nearly 2000 criminals that he thought should not be in jail. Most all of them were in prison for life on drug charges, mostly large amounts of drugs with intent to sell. Most of those 2000 people are back in jail. But it’s a kingly duty to guilt or innocence. Even secular culture leaves that power to kings and presidents. Presidents may not directly preside over ever case, but any case they choose to intervene on they can grant a pardon. Further presidents appoint those who do sit on such cases. 

Finally they were trying to function as prophet too. A prophet is the mouthpiece of God. Christ specifically was the mouthpiece of God in a very specific way. Through his life and ministry he pronounced the death of sin. As priest, He through his life demonstrated how a Christian should live, and in every action pointed all the glory at his father. 

A few years back we had a solar eclipse. Around that they used the word Totality a lot. Do you remember that? Talking about totality with that eclipse. They kept a countdown till totality, or told you what percent of totality you would be able to see. Any of you watch the eclipse? I did too. I pulled my camera out, and added the right filters to the right lens. I twisted nobs and pushed buttons to have it all set so that I could take pictures of the eclipse. I took about 200 pictures through clowdy overcast gloomy skies, and threw away most of them. 

Unlike the totality of the eclipse which brought us darkness, the totality of Christ brought us light! Through Christ, and the ministry of Christ we are given the totality of the message of God concerning sin and salvation. But the catholic church sought to pull that job into itself. It sought to change the message of Christ, and it started by attacking the authority of scripture (which we’ve already talked about). Then it diminished the role of Christ in support of saints, and finally it attacked by saying the church administered God’s grace each week. Christ’s sacrifice they say, just isn’t enough. 

Christ’s sacrifice is infinitely more than enough. 

Perfect, holy, good part of the Trinity, son of God himself, a man who lived and died a sinless life, was put to death for you and for me. 

2 corinthians 5:21 says “For our sake he (God) made him (Jesus) to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.

John Owen wrote that we can see the death of death, in the death of Christ. When he died, sin was defeated. When Jesus died on the cross for us, we were given the opportunity to be sons and daughters of the King. What a wonderful Gift. One can never find true freedom apart from Christ. 


Gospel. 

