John 6:43-51, and 6:60-65
Lets turn in our bibles to John chapter 6. We will start in vs43.

While you’re turning there our people group of the week. The dar Hamid of sudan. A friend of mine from College at 80 was a missionary to sudan, and traveled all over the place drinking the water and eating the food. It was a harrowing thing in my mind for a person in his 80s to do. But for him, he in faith would travel all over sudan sharing the gospel. Any way, the Dar Hamid is a group of 19 tribes, that represent about 750000 people. They are nominally muslim people. Most are only muslim because someone once told them they were. People go through all the time selling charms, and trinkets that are promised to do this or that, ward off spirits, or encourage good health. They put in general more stock in the charms than they do in islam. They are a nomadic people that have few possessions, and trade in wool and leather products. 

They are difficult to reach because sudan as a country is hostile to Christians, and nomadic people groups are incredibly suspicious of outsiders. Please pray for opportunities for the gospel.

While you are turning there, This is the second week were talking about the five sola’s of the reformation on the five hundred and fourth anniversary of Martin Luthers hammer strikes on the door of the wittenburg church. Last week we talked about sola scriptura or the biblical idea that the bible is no only relevant for us today, but is a divinely protected and perfect message for us. 

This week we are venturing into sola gracia or by grace alone. Perhaps you’ve heard the old hymn “Every promise we can make Every prayer and step of faith Every difference we will make is only by His grace. Every mountain we will climb Every ray of hope we shine Every blessing left behind is only by His grace Grace alone which God supplies Strength unknown He will provide Christ in us, our cornerstone We willl go forth in grace alone. Every soul we long to reach Every hearth we hope to teach Everywhere we share His peace is only by His grace Every loving word we say Every tear we wipe away Every sorrow turned to praise is only by His grace Grace alone which God supplies Strength unknown He will provide Christ in us, our cornerstone We willl go forth in grace alone. Grace alone which God supplies Strength unknown He will provide Christ in us, our cornerstone We willl go forth in grace alone. Grace alone which God supplies Strength unknown He will provide Christ in us, our cornerstone We willl go forth in grace alone. We willl go forth in grace alone.

This is an important point of distinction between Protestants and Catholics. We often tell the story of Martin Luther a catholic monk, nailing his 95 thesis to the door of the wittenburg church in Germany. The contents of which started a return to the word of God. To this point and even still in the catholic church the words of the pope were held in higher regard than the words of God. Can God speak through a man? Certainly. I believe that happens every week in pulpits around the country. But when the word of a man is elevated to the same extent, or even higher than the word of God then that becomes a problem. 

So when a protestant says he’s a Calvinist, or he’s reformed, or he’s a Lutheran, or he’s a Baptist, or hes whatever. It doesn’t mean one elevates cavlin, or arminius, or Luther, or the reformers to a place above scripture. It simply means that having weighed the issues at hand, and deeply scoured scripture regarding this issue, I find I agree with Calvin, or luther, or arminius, or Augustine, or whichever. 


Because Who is our ultimate authority? God. And God alone. Many popes have been well meaning. But a significant number were not. There was a time that for the right donation, even the papacy was for sale, and so what you end up with are papal traditions, and saying that directly contradict scripture, and the sayings of other popes. We should never elevate the reformers, or other fathers of the protestant church above scripture. 

The opinions of popes change, but the word of God is forever. Unchanging. We can look back across time and compare copies of scripture from thousands of years ago, to the copies we have today, and there are only a handful of differences – mostly a line duplicated, or spelling issues with someones name. But as you would expect of a document brought into being by divine means, its been protected by God as well, and so while there are these few issues, not a single one of them affects any issue of doctrine or theology. All the things we believe remain untouched by time. Almost as though God is protecting his word. We do not see that in the papal decrees. One day one pope might say the sky is blue, and the next pope might say the sky is violet with pink polka dots. Man is changing and broken, only God is not. So God’s word is to be preferred over mans. We will get more into that next week. Almost every single one of Luthers thesis (92 out of 95) had to do with man adding things to scripture. The purchasing of indulgences for instance. For the right check to the church, they believed you could get out of trouble. So in Luthers day this became pretty wide spread. Planning to cheat on your wife? Make a donation to the church, and they would argue its excused by God. Spouses had a hard time arguing with that when their spouses found out. “Yeah honey, sorry I did cheat, but this bauble I bought from the church excuses me from it. Gods not holding me accountable, how can you?”
Any sin could be excused …. For a price. I used to work in rental management, and this one particular house, this elderly couple that was dying of cancer, they left everything they owned behind and went to live with their children out of state. A whole lifetimes worth of things they cared about tossed away. Any way, during that clean out I came across an indulgence that they had purchased around the same time that excused them from church for a year. I have no idea what that kind of thing cost. But I’m sure it was insanely expensive. It makes me angry to think about the church preying upon the elderly dying of cancer. Can’t make rent, so they are getting evicted. But if you don’t buy this indulgence, you’re going to hell for skipping church. It bothers me deeply. Worse that kind of thing is no where to be found in scripture. Needless to say, the catholic church was anjd is in a dark place. Its striking to me that the words of popes change all the time, and there are catholic organizations that track this kind of thing. Under this pope or that they grew more liberal, or conservative. More biblically minded, or more socially minded, or what have you. But let me ask you this, does God ever change? No. God is the same yesterday, today and forever Hebrews 13:8. So if God is the same, according to God’s words, then how can the ever changing word of man, be held in the same high or higher regard as what the unchanging word of God says? It can’t be. Which is at least part of what spurred luther to write. He never intended to leave the catholic church. He just wanted to draw catholics back towards scripture. At the end of the day, the catholics forced him out, and the Lutheran church was born – created by Luthers followers. As Baptists we trace our heritage back to luther among others. 

This message is mostly centered around Sola Gracia, but it necessitates we look at our own condition first. So lets start there. 

What is man capable of? To answer that I think we need to look at mans condition. We won’t be turning there but I’ll summarize eph 2 for you. It says we are dead in sin, followers of the world. Followers of the devil. Sons of disobedience. Subservient to the passions of our flesh. Carrying out the desire of the flesh. By nature we are children of wrath, it says we are separated from Christ due to our sin, that are alienated, hostile, slaves to the law. Think about that. What can a dead body do on its own? Absolutely nothing. We have horror shows in our culture that prove this. We are fascinated with this idea of the dead rising up and attacking the living. The dead walking down streets, the dead eating peoples brains. Millions of dollars each year are made scaring people based around this concept of the walking dead. Yet is not this exactly how we are apart from Christ? Jesus said as much in our passage tonight. Vs 44 no one can come to me unless the father who sent me draws him. Again in vs 65, Jesus says “this is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the father. Apart from God what we have to offer is what? Zilch. Zero. Zip. Nadda. Nothing. We have nothing apart from the grace and mercy of God we are a dead body. Walking around. A famous preacher of the great awakening said this “You contribute nothing to your salvation except the sin that made it necessary!” Jonathan Edwards. 

The only thing we bring to the table is need. I saw an interview with R.C. Sproul – hes a pastor out of Orlando. He said he had been talking with a man, and outright asked him if he loved God as much as he thought he ought to. Now in truth, no one can say yes to this. If you think you do, I challenge you to look squarely into scripture and find your reflection because I promise you what you will see is just how far short we all fall from loving God like we ought. So we are dead in our trespasses, children of wrath. Apart from Christ we can’t do anything good right? So by doing evil can anyone do anything good? Because of our choice to sin, we have selected a nature that prevents us from even willingly following Christ of our own choice. We can’t get away from it, we can’t over come it, by turning our lives around we can’t escape even then. We are dead, and what can a dead body do? 

But that is where Christ comes in. Before we can even follow him, he has to do a work in us. Before we even have an interest in following Christ, he’s already been at work on our hearts. This is the beginnings of grace. When governed by our own ambitions we spurn Christ, but he works on our hearts so that we can accept him. Vs 44 makes this clear.  No one can come to Me unless the Father who sent Me draws him. We are after all just a dead body, walking around. But there is hope in this too. If you have been considering following Christ, that means God’s doing a work in you, to even enable you to think that way. God’s working on you, just like he has worked, and is working in me, and all of us who are believers in jesus christ. Chipping away at our cold hearts of stone. Gently, for our sake. He could simply slam a hammer into our stony parts, and shatter it away, but most of the time, that isn’t whats best for us. So he chissles and chips. Like Michaelangelo, every hammer strike critical every chip necessary for Christ’s masterpiece. Every struggle we experience is a hammer strike, and every pain a chip being sculpted away for the Glory of God. Isn’t that a beautiful picture? Its not just random struggles, its God making something magnificent. We shatter the image of God in creation through sin, and yet God is slowing restoring that in us moment by moment. So he’s not surprised when you struggle, he allowed it to mold you and to shape you. 

Much of the struggle we have chosen for our self as a result of choosing to sin. In so doing we  chose to separate ourselves from God. If our earthly life comes to an end, and we are still in that same condition – apart from God – apart from a relationship with Christ - what happens to us? Well if we die separate from God, we remain separate from God into eternity. In short we choose Hell. 

Want to hear something scary? Let me start by asking you this: Is your relationship with God marked by obedience rooted in faith? I heard a guy preach recently that being a Christian in the bible belt is dangerous. Because going to church is easy. Its easy to bring a dish to a pot luck. Its easy to stay late and vacuum – and I am glad some of you do! – its easy to go to Sunday school, and bible study, and its easy to look real good, and still be as lost as a goat. Lost as a tare, lost as chaff amongst the wheat. So is your relationship with God marked by obedience and rooted in faith? Because if not, If you are making no movement, if there are no marks of obedience to God in your life, you are not a Christian you should consider yourself lost and in danger of damnation. 
You might think that’s hard, or mean spirited or cruel. But I think its more cruel to allow you to choose hell without being warned. I think its mean spirited not to share the gospel with people!
Instead we should follow the example of Billy Sunday. Are you familiar with him? He was a locally famous preacher down in Ybor City. He would go around sharing the gospel with people, preaching on street corners, and basically anyone that would sit still long enough would hear the gospel. This is what he said, what Billy Sunday said:” I’m against sin. I’ll kick it as long as I have a foot. I’ll fight it as long as I have a fist. I’ll butt it as long as I have a head. I’ll bite it as long as I’ve got a tooth. And when I’m old and fistless and footless and toothless, I’ll gum it till I go home to Glory and it goes home to perdition”.

Does God expect us to be perfect? No. He provided the cross for that. He expects us to try to meet his standard. To push through and even though we trip and fall we keep getting backup and pressing forward time and time and time again. If we were all perfect and faultless God wouldn’t have had to send his son to die! But we are anything but perfect, and God loved us anyway. So he sent his son to die on the cross for us. 

I have this mental picture. I don’t know about you guys when you were kids, or your kids or grandkids, but when my sister and I were kids, and indeed her kids now, they just absolutely love to pile on to you, and let you drag them around. Wyley when he was younger loved to lay on the floor and hold on to your ankles while you try to walk. Lilly and violet, they sit on top of your shoe and wrap their arms and legs about your ankle. My niece paris loved to jump on my back when I’m not paying attention and wrap her arms about my neck and just dangle there. One at a time, its not so bad, you can kind of struggle along. But when ALL of them are hanging on to you, dragging on the floor, sitting on your feet, and hanging from your neck, it becomes really hard to move. Frequently I can’t move. But when I am entangled with those kids, its hard to push forward. Its easy to stumble, its easy to fall. Its easy to get tripped up by an extra couple hundred pounds of kids dangling off you. But is it not the same with sin? Without the work of Christ in your heart you don’t even have the desire to try. Scripture says the things of the Lord are foolishness to those who don’t believe. So Those that don’t even try should consider themselves lost. So many people in the cultural south are Christians not because they follow Christ but because perceived social benefits.
The Scripture does not say you must be better, scripture says you must be born again!

The Baptist Faith and Message says on the topic of grace:
V. God's Purpose of Grace
Election is the gracious purpose of God, according to which He regenerates, justifies, sanctifies, and glorifies sinners. It is consistent with the free agency of man, and comprehends all the means in connection with the end. It is the glorious display of God's sovereign goodness, and is infinitely wise, holy, and unchangeable. It excludes boasting and promotes humility.
All true believers endure to the end. Those whom God has accepted in Christ, and sanctified by His Spirit, will never fall away from the state of grace, but shall persevere to the end. 

Finally the famous Baptist Preacher of the last century James Petigrew Boyce wrote this: “3. Grace alone. The words sola gratia mean that human beings have no claim upon God. That is, God owes us nothing except just punishment for our many and very willful sins. Therefore, if he does save sinners, which he does in the case of some but not all, it is only because it pleases him to do it. Indeed, apart from this grace and the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit that flows from it, no one would be saved, since in our lost condition, human beings are not capable of winning, seeking out, or even cooperating with God's grace. By insisting on "grace alone" the Reformers were denying that human methods, techniques, or strategies in themselves could ever bring anyone to faith. It is grace alone expressed through the supernatural work of the Holy Spirit that brings us to Christ, releasing us from our bondage to sin and raising us from death to spiritual life.
So God owes us nothing. Absolutely nothing. What we deserve is eternity separated from him, but those of us who are believers in Jesus Christ he has chosen to save. Not because of any merit or any height of virtue, or any other thing we could achieve in our own strength. We are after all dead according to scripture.  Like Ephesians 2:8-9 says “for its by grace you have been saved, through faith, and this not of yourself it’s the gift of God, lest any man should boast” when God intercedes on our behalf it is an undeserved blessing. If you ask him and mean it, you will be saved scripture says. 


Perhaps you are here tonight, and have never made that decision. Tonight’s the night!
