2 timothy 3:13-17

500 years ago this year a man named Martin Luther nailed a rather pugnacious letter to the door of his church outlining all the ways the church had strayed away from scripture. 

His fiery determination with the help of the holy spirit was able to grab hold of the hearts and minds of many people to whom he preached the Gospel. The result was that people began to take their faith seriously. 

Prior to Luther, church services were not held in the languages of the people. Martin Luther was a german, but in Germany the services were not held in German, they were held in Latin. Same in the rest of the world. Could you imagine going to church and sitting through songs, and a sermon in a language you can’t understand? This is depicted in a monty python movie. They are marching to attack the Killer Rabbit of Caerbannog, are routed by the little fuzzy thing, and so they decide to call for the holy hand grenade. Suddenly monks appear marching carrying the thing chanting in latin. Almost no one speaks latin, none in the movie, so no one knows whats being said, and its funny! Arthur and the nights stand around looking puzzled while the knights smack each other in the face.  The monks kept chanting “pie jesu domine, dona eis requiem”. I took a little latin, and recognized some of it. I had to google the pronoun… But it basically means “our Lord Jesus give them rest”. 

This is basically what things were like 500 years ago. Needless to say this led to an even worse set of beliefs. Luther wrote about how this pope would be elected and say hey the sky is blue, and the next pope would be elected and say no the sky is green, and the third pope was completely color blind and would say no the sky is grey! That coupled with people that couldn’t even understand what the positions of the church were because they were taught in a language the average person couldn’t understand led to the catholic church and especially the pope having little to no earthly accountability. This led to a number of financial scandals. One especially disgusting thing was that the pope decreed that if only people would give more to the catholic church they could earn heavenly indulgences. There developed a sort of market for sin. If you committed adultery, you could purchase forgiveness for so many dollars, if you lied, or skipped church, or cursed, give enough money to the church, and you could buy forgiveness from God. This issue was one of Luthers biggest complaints and he was right to condemn the practice. It’s a huge contribution, but its eclipsed by several other contributions; the five pillars of the reformation for instance, and his contributions to returning to a biblical understanding of salvation, and ultimately his thinking led to a group that re-instituted believers baptism. 

Tonight were going to look at the first of the five pillars. We will keep working our way through these, and then afterwards Id like to look at some of the elements in the Baptist faith and message. So the sermons will be a little different. In any event, Luther isn’t the only one known for these five pillars. He didn’t specifically name them, but these five elements came to be reflected by every one of the reformers both before and after Luther – though luther and his theses were arguably the catalyst that brought these things into the public eye. Ok ready? Five Sola’s. Sola means alone. We’ve talked a little bit about these things in the past. Faith alone, scripture alone, through Christ alone, by grace alone for the glory of God alone. 

Tonight were going to look at Sola Scriptura, or by scripture alone. As southern Baptists we agree with other southern Baptists churches that we believe what the  Baptist faith and message says. We consider those to be the items of importance that we all believe together. So lets read what it says on the issue of the scriptures – which is definitely related to Sola Scriptura – our topic tonight, and that is deeply rooted in scripture as well. So hold on to your bibles, we are going to be opening them soon!

The BFM says this: 
	The Holy Bible was written by men divinely inspired and is God's revelation of Himself to man. It is a perfect treasure of divine instruction. It has God for its author, salvation for its end, and truth, without any mixture of error, for its matter. Therefore, all Scripture is totally true and trustworthy. It reveals the principles by which God judges us, and therefore is, and will remain to the end of the world, the true center of Christian union, and the supreme standard by which all human conduct, creeds, and religious opinions should be tried. All Scripture is a testimony to Christ, who is Himself the focus of divine revelation.
In our constitution and bylaws, we have written that not only is scripture totally and completely accurate, but it is incapable of being inaccurate. So we believe that on any issue the bible directly speaks about it is completely and totally accurate. For instance, the bible isn’t a science text book – but where it speaks of science, to the extent that things can be tested it has been proved right. For instance, thousands of years before Christ in the psalms, scripture talks about the globe of the earth, the ball of the earth, the sphere of the earth. The bible clearly says the earth is round several times! It was man through the catholic church that got that twisted declaring the earth to be flat. 

Lets pause there, and read from God’s word. 2 timothy 3:13. 
So what do we know about this passage. Lets look at it like this. Lets say that you walked into a room, and your spouse was scolding a child saying “never ever take a cookie from the cookie jar without asking”. What are you going to naturally assume the child had done? That’s right, we would instantly think the child had taken a cookie when he wasn’t supposed to. The same for Paul here. If he’s needing to admonish Timothy to beware of false teachings, and that all scripture is breathed out by God himself, then naturally we can draw the conclusion that the people Timothy was to be serving with were being drawn to false teachings because they didn’t realize the extent of the value, and the source of the very word of God. R.C. Sproul a pastor over in Orlando wrote that the people Timothy was ministering to were a contentious lot. They enjoyed contention or fighting for the sake of fighting. They had taken some things in the old testament, out of context, and that caused a distorted view of both Christ and the new testament. Its kind of like building a house. The old testament points to Christ, and the New testament also points to Christ. We understand the new testament in light of the old, and the old testament in light of the new. That’s circular I know, but as the Lord teaches you new things in the new testament, it deepens your understanding of the old, which in turn will give you new insight into the new. Likewise, because of the spiral nature of biblical knowledge, if you get a point twisted, it affects your view of others parts of the scripture. Too much salt in the coffee pot spoils ever cup right?

Lets look at some of the contemporary issues of the day there are two universal truths about all of them. Firstly they all come back to “I” I want, I think I need, ultimately I don’t want to depend on God etc. you’ve all heard me talk about that before. Secondly, they all come back to a misinterpretation of Scripture. Think about abortion. If people had a proper view and understanding of scripture, do you think such a person would kill their own baby? Certainly not. What about Homosexuality and the questions of sexuality, having 4m genders? The party lifestyle? The roles of men and women? Evolution? All of these things come back to ones view of scripture, and its sufficiency. If you have a high view of the Word of God, you’re going to believe what it says, and you’re not going to be getting dragged into the wrong side of these issues. A man named trevor Noah wrote: “When we have in evangelicalism the suggestion repeated over and over again that the bibles not a text book for this or that and that one day when a textbook is written on this or that it will supersede scriptures authority on this or that and those textbooks are being written all the time, and exceeding the authority of scripture all the time~ Trevor Noah. 

When we have a book that as our passage tonight says is God breathed. Let me ask you this. If our God is all knowing, and scripture says he is, if our God can see all of past, all of the present and all of the future, which scripture seems to indicate he can, then if such a God were to write a book. Do you not think he would write down everything that was most important in such a way that it would be impactful for everyone across all time across all the different issues they face in their time? God is NOT capricious, doesn’t make mistakes, doesn’t fly by the seat of his pants. If God puts it in the Bible, there is meaning in it that is relevant for us today. It is currently the highest earthly authority possible. Something that God breathed out of himself and into the authors of the old and new testament. 

As such, what kind of view do you think we should have of it? Martin Luther argued that it was vital we believe nothing more or nothing less than the scripture. 

“You have the Apostle Paul who shows to you a garden, or paradise, which is full of comfort, when he says: ‘Whatever was written, was written for our instruction, so that through patience and the consolation of the Scriptures we might have hope’ (Romans 15:4). Here he attributes to Holy Scripture the function of comforting. Who may dare to seek or ask for comfort anywhere else?”

We see he believed scripture brings us hope, and comfort. 
When we are being attacked we should turn to it. He says:
“Nothing helps more powerfully against the devil, the world, the flesh, and all evil thoughts than occupying oneself with God’s Word, having conversations about it, and contemplating it.”

He goes on to say: “If you now attempt, in this spiritual conflict, to protect yourself by the help of man without the Word of God, you simply enter upon the conflict with that mighty spirit, the devil, naked and unprotected.” Such an endeavor would be worse than David against Goliath—without God’s supernatural power helping David. You may, therefore, if you so please, oppose your power to the might of the devil. It will then be very easily seen what an utterly unequal conflict it is, if one does not have at hand in the beginning the Word of God.”

The word of God frees us ““So we also labor by the Word of God that we may set at liberty those that are entangled, and bring them to the pure doctrine of faith, and hold them there…. The Scripture does not set forth Christ as an accuser, a judge, or a tempter, but as a reconciler, a mediator, a comforter, and a throne of grace”
So if you’re weary, where should you turn? Scripture
If you’re sad where should you turn? Scripture
If you’re discouraged?
If you’re tempted? 
If you are under attack by our enemy? 
If you are experiencing loss, or any circumstance where you need comforting? Scripture. 
Basically, when life gives you lemons, don’t make lemonade. Throw those things out, and open your bible, because there you can soak in the sweet truths of the word of God. 

Alright, last thing I want to look at before we close. Sometimes, some things we simply take for granted when it comes to the scriptures. 

Firstly the bible is a book comprised of 66 books. These 66 books were written over the course of several thousand years and yet never in any of its 756,775 words does it ever contradict itself. Dozens of authors with precious few that might have known each other spread out over thousands of years, and yet there is not a single discrepancy. 

Finding discrepancies in books of fiction is kind of a pet peeve of mine. I was reading a book by a relatively famous author that has now passed on, and in book 6 of his 9 book series he has one of the main characters in her home base of opperations on one page, and on the next half way around the world at the front lines, and then on the third page shes back home in her ivory tower. She can’t fly, its not star trek, there is no teleporter, no magic that can cause her to change locations like that. It was simply an oversight on the part of the author. Ooops. It happens to ever author that writes under his own power. My favorite author of fiction right now is Brandon Sanderson. He writes a book about every six months. BUT it takes about 20 months for each new book to make it into production because of his goal of making sure no errors like I just mentioned happen in his books. He has thousands of people involved in this process, and he said often as many as 20 re-writes before he gets it right. 

Yet with scripture what we see are things like the personal correspondence of Paul. He writes a letter, puts it in an envelope and sends it. No team of thousands proof reading, no opportunity for re-writes. Instead what we have is God choosing Paul, and then breathing into Paul the things he wants Paul to express using Paul’s vocabulary, and phrasing and so on. Of all the people that existed across all of time, God choose Paul because he knew when he breathed into Paul, things like the book of Romans would come out. That there are no discrepancies across all the books of the bible speaks to someone superintending over the production of the Bible. But let me ask you this, if God wanted to give us his word, would he not preserve it as well? We know in part how he did. There were a group of people called the Masoretes, their mission in life was basically to make copies of books of the bible. They knew how many words were in a given book. They knew the exact middle word, they knew which words should be at the end of each line of each page. They took their job seriously. If they encountered one of the names of God they were so serious about preserving his word untainted, that they would stop, and go through a purification ritual – basically take a shower, before writing the name of God. Failing to do so would result in the manuscript being burned. After it was written, it would be double checked by another scholar whose entire life was devoted to quality control of copies of scripture. He would read each and every line of each and every page, and if a single word was out of place, he wouldn’t tell them to erase that line and start over, he would burn the entire thing and tell the copyist to start over. It took on average 20 years to make a single copy of the old testament. Most of our copies in the original language comes from the lifes work of this group of men. 

In fact they were so dedicated to their craft that even today as we discover more, and older manuscripts from other sources we are finding them to be exact copies. For instance, have you guys ever heard of the dead sea scrolls? They found a copy of Leviticus recently, its 2000 years older than our current oldest copy. Two thousand years. And yet guess what? It is exactly word for word for word the same as its 2000 year younger brother. Because if God wants us to have his word, he’s going to preserve his word. Amen? 

So as Christians, what should we be doing with his word? Do you guys read your bible every day? It washes us, it comforts us, it helps us fight temptation, and the evil one, it draws us closer to Jesus every time we read it. It deepens our relationship with him. If we are not reading our bible every day we should be. 

Maybe you’re here and you are not yet a Christian. Being a Christian is more than believing in God, scripture says that even the demons believe in God, and they tremble. Are the demons going to be in heaven? No. Its more than believing in the existence of God, its also having a relationship with God. So we can talk to God through prayer, and he can respond back by the prompting of the holy spirit, and through his word. The bible is a vital part of your relationship with God. 

I think we all have or have had that one friend who comes to you for advice, but then doesn’t listen. Its almost like they want to dump their problems and run more than find advice. Anyone ever known someone like that? When we don’t listen to God through his word, and through the prompting of the Holy Spirit, are we any better? 

But again, if you have never come to a point in your spiritual life where you’ve begun a relationship with Jesus Christ, than please come talk to me before you leave tonight. Scripture says wide is the gate that leads to destruction, and many there are that find it. But narrow is the way that leads to salvation and few there are that find it. So please come talk to me, and I’ll show you in the Bible, in the word of God how to start. 

Communion

the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread,  and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, “This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.” In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.”  For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death until he comes.  Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord.  Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup.  For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself.
