what does the bible say about all this. 

Anyone know what the last recorded miracle, in terms of year is, and where you can find it in scripture? acts 28:7-10 the year is 58ad. From this point until roughly 90ad when Paul writes the book of revelation on the island of patmos, there are no further miracles recorded. In fact, the only new testmant books that record any miracles are the gospels, acts, and the book of first Corinthians. 1st Corinthians many believe was one of the earlier books written. Nothing in the rest of the new testament records miracles happening on demand like happened early on with the disciples. No men were going around to the sick beds and healing everyone they touched and prayed for. Why is that? 

Lets look at 1st Corinthians for the answer. Open with me to 1 cor 13:8-10. Lets read it. 

I had to do a little research here and dig into the greek. It says tongues will cease, knowledge will cease, and miracles will cease. English does a fairly poor job of expressing everything that’s being said in the greek. I had to look up a few words here to make sure I was being absolutely precise. There are three gifts that are mentioned as coming to an end, and three times it is said those three gifts will cease. Prophecy and Knowledge will cease, and tongues it says in my ESV will be stilled. 

If you look in the greek, the that is translated as “be stilled” means to stop on their own, and never begin again. The word for knowledge stopping means “erode” or be slowly washed away, and for prophecy the word means “to condemn into inactivity” or be destroyed according to strongs. 

The part I want to zero in on though is where it says “when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away. There are two partials right? We know in part, and we prophesy in part. So in the greek we can know this perfect has two meanings. When is the prophecy complete? 90ad when Paul finishes revelation. At that point we have the full complete revelation from God that he’s going to give us here on earth. That also represents the point where our knowledge was at its greatest here on earth. Over time that knowledge erodes until one day we reach heaven and everything that was lost will be recovered. Everything we didn’t need to know on earth, that God wants us to know will be revealed to us at that point, we will have a perfect handle on both knowledge and God’s prophecy. 

Something else cool, is that in heaven I believe we are all going to understand each other. So tongues is maybe active again there as well. 

What about miracles – I’ve seen miracles. My car going to Miami – that was a miracle absolutely. Have I told you that story? We are all aware of some miracles that have happened right? 

But that wasn’t a result of me was it. God didn’t give me the magical mechanics touch. I can’t go around and touch cars and they start working again. Every other time my vehicle has broken down, I’ve had to get out the wrenches, and work hard to get the truck to work again, or pay hard for someone else to fix it. 

What I mean here is that God is capable of doing anything. God can make me start speaking in tongues right now if he wanted. He could start whispering in my ear as he did with saints of old, and give me the new book of proverbs if he wanted. 

But those macro level gifts don’t seem to be given out any more. He does still work. But that’s him working, not me. Its not because of me. Its not a gift I have. The individual miracle is a gift God gives us, and they are rare and precious when given, and there is always a purpose. Like moms arthritis. Could you imagine her with an additional twenty years worth of arthritis damage trying to help ellisha raise three kids? Or with my car. I was a mess, and questioning. God wanted to re-assure me that I was following his path in going to Haiti, so he gave me a gift in keeping my car going when it shouldn’t have been able to. This is what the fourth wave believes – that God is capable of doing anything he wants. He could still give those sign gifts out if he chose too. However based on what we see going on around us, and based on the testimony of history and scripture, God doesn’t seem to be giving that kind of Gift any more, instead God gives miracles in individual situations. God Heals my mother of arthritis. Does that mean Bob had the gift of healing? If Bob had that gift, wouldn’t he have been able to go to the hospital and everyone he prayed for would be healed? Wouldn’t Lois have had her lungs healed? But that wasn’t God’s will. We asked God for a miracle, and God said no. We asked God to heal her, we knew it wasn’t dependent upon bob, and when God said no, we accepted it. God can still do miracles. God can still heal. We should absolutely ask. But its dependent upon God, and not Bob or Will, or Greg, or Ken to choose to move in the situation. 

One more way we believe differently than tozer is in this, tozer is what you would call an Arminian. He believes that if you work hard enough, then one day you can be good enough, and in your own power able to follow God. If we were ever going to be able to do that, we wouldn’t have needed Christ to die. If God is going to give us such a massive gift, wouldn’t he help sustain that gift in our life? Scripture says so. The Arminian believes if one isn’t careful, one can lose it. 

But scripture says John 10:27-28 lets read it. 

What does the word perish mean there? Is it talking about physical death? Its got to mean hell doesn’t it. So he gives us eternal life, we will never go to hell, and we can never be plucked out of God’s hand. Basically unless you are stronger than God once you are saved, you’re going to remain saved until one day you get to heaven and God doesn’t need to maintain it any more. Are you stronger than God? 

Of course not. No one, and nothing is stronger than he was has saved us, and is actively maintaining our salvation for us until one day when we stand face to face with Christ. 

Now we should put in effort, not because we fear without it we will be damned, but out of love and gratitude for what Christ did for us. Its not our duty or obligation, its our joy to follow Christ’s example. Its not a chore, its an opportunity to identify with Christ. Because of the love we have for God we should want to try to be different. God will help us in that too. But we know its not our effort that saves or damns us. Our efforts when directed towards God, and commanded by God are supported by God and we are drawn closer to God. 


By the end of Tozers life, he is quoted as saying there isn’t a church left on the continent he hadn’t offended. He wasn’t far off the mark. Any time he saw something he believed was contrary to scripture he jumped on it hard and publicly. He died loving Christ, and disillusioned with the church. 

So these are the ways and things we believe different than Tozer on. Next week, lets go over the first chapter
Adapted in part from John macarthurs charismatic chaos. 


Chapter 1. 

Did you guys catch what he said in the first page – the idea of prevenient grace? He wrote “Prevenient grace briefly stated means this, before a man can seek after God, God must have first sought the man”.  Do you think scripture backs this up? Can you think of any verses? 

The first one that came to my mind was 1 john 4:19   Lets open there. We love because he first loved us. 20 Whoever claims to love God yet hates a brother or sister is a liar. For whoever does not love their brother and sister, whom they have seen, cannot love God, whom they have not seen. 21 And he has given us this command: Anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister.

Its clear that God does the persuing here. I think that’s partly why the church is called Christ’s Bride. The husband persues the wife normally, the bridegroom persues the bride. Christ persues us. Tozer said we have the capacity to follow Christ, but not the power to do so. 

Likewise 1 corinthians 2:14 and following (open there) says this: 

The person without the Spirit does not accept the things that come from the Spirit of God but considers them foolishness, and cannot understand them because they are discerned only through the Spirit. 15The person with the Spirit makes judgments about all things, but such a person is not subject to merely human judgments, 16for “Who has known the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?” d But we have the mind of Christ. 

Another translation says “the things of the Lord are foolishness to the natural man”. Natural man means naturally the man apart from Christ. Christ’s prevenient love for us means he loved us first. He rescued us first. He did a work in us so that we could even have a chance to respond appropriately to Christ. 

Its as though we have blinders on, and Christ is light. But we can’t see the light because the blinders block it. So Christ because of his great love for us, removes those blinders so we can really see and follow Christ. 

Ephesians 2 is another great passage that talks about this: 1As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins, 2in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world and of the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. 3All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our flesh a and following its desires and thoughts. Like the rest, we were by nature deserving of wrath. 4But because of his great love for us, God, who is rich in mercy, 5made us alive with Christ even when we were dead in transgressions—it is by grace you have been saved. 6And God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus, 7in order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches of his grace, expressed in his kindness to us in Christ Jesus. 8For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith—and this is not from yourselves, it is the gift of God— 9not by works, so that no one can boast. 10For we are God’s handiwork, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do.

What can a dead man do? What can he see? What can he choose? But for the prevenient Grace of God, we would still be that natural man, that dead man. That corpse. 

AW Tozer was once asked if he had an hour to share the gospel, what would he say, and his response was that he would spend 55 minutes explaining original sin, and the weight of our sin debt. How lost and hopeless things are apart from Christ, and then in the last five he would give the gospel. Scripture says so much about this issue. We could dive into romans 8 and 9. But we won’t this morning. That’s another time. 

We only persue God because he gave us an urge to do so. I always think of David when I think of a true urge or longing to follow after God. He wrote in the psalms “my heart and soul long for you, like a man dying of thirst in the desert longs for water”. Its intensely powerful, and insistent, its visceral. It’s almost like a physical need – like a thirst that must be quenched. Tozer quotes a different psalm – psalm 42 and points out as the deer panteth for the water so my soul longeth after thee. 

Have you ever felt that longing? That calling by God on your soul that draws your closer to God? Like a moth to the flame, or a piece of steel to a magnet. When God tugs on your soul there is no resisting it is there? There are days when I feel it more than others. Sometimes I allow the complexities of life to interfere. My own stresses, and interests, and concerns sometimes can consume my focus – but is that right? 

Does that honor God? Certainly not. In light of what God has done for us, where should our focus be? 

One thing I’ve noticed is the more focused on the Lord I become, the less these other things concern me. There have been times where stupid little things have really rocked my boat, and times where big things were no problem, and the difference was where my focus was at the time. When focused on Christ, the world around us kinda fades away because of the awesomness of Christ. 

It’s a little like gothic architecture in that regard. You remember the cathedral of Notre Dame that bured a while back? It was massive. When you walked in its sheer size was designed to make you feel small. To remind us of how big God is, vs how small we are. 

Does anyone have any questions about our reading this week, or the things we’ve talked about today? 

Week 2 Next week we will finish chapter 1, and may get into chapter 2 a bit. We shall see .