
Thanksgiving is one of the better holidays I think, right up there with Christmas and easter. In listening to people preach this week it struck me that one of the purposes of mankind was to give thanksgiving to God. We ought to be thankful for our very existence. 

There have been a lot of comments on facebook this week talking about the church being thankful on thanksgiving and worshipping the false gospel of consumerism on black Friday. But then black Friday came and went, and the stores were disappointed. Less people turned out for the ”Sales” than normal. While I’m not opposed to a good sale, and have participated in black Friday my self from time to time, I think its vital to remember a few things. 

lets read our passage. Psalms 107:1-3



God didn’t have to create us. Had he not decided to, we would never have had the opportunity to see a pretty sunrise or set. We’d never have the opportunity to worship God, to choose. We never would have even come into being. Further, we should be thankful for his continued patience with us. When I was a kid my mom would on occasion say “I brought you into this world, I can take you out, and make another one that looks just like you”. While that was not in the scope of my mothers power, not really, it was within the scope of God’s power. He created us perfect, in a perfect world, and as soon as he asked us not to do something, we ran right over and messed things up just like any kid does when told not to take a cookie from the jar. At that moment, he could have, and would have been just in doing so, he could have obliterated mankind, and the earth and started fresh. Whats a weeks work to a God of infinite time? He could have made us differently so we didn’t screw up so badly so quickly, but he chose to continue working with us even though we had taken a sledgehammer to his perfect creation shattering his reflection that he had so painstakingly imbued everything with. 

You ever spend a bunch of time working on something? Trying to make something nice and special, only to have a kid come along and trash it before you had a chance to gift it, or put it on display? That’s basically what we did to God. 

He would have been within his rights to destroy us; instead he died for us. For this we should be thankful. 

We should be thankful for every nail hammered into the hands of Christ, thankful for each of the 39 lashes Christ took from the cat of 9 tails, thankful for christis substitutionary atonement for our sins. 

He has done so much for us, we owe him so much gratitude, and thanks. Even then he didn’t stop. 

Did you ever stop to think that earth took 7 days to complete. Earth, our solar system, our universe, our galaxy, and there are millions of them out there. Every scenic vista, every sunset, every mountain, all implicitly or explicitly created that first week. 

God has been working on heaven as far as we know ever since. Earth is pretty amazing. Just imagine what our God could create with a year. Or ten years. Now ten thousand years. What a place heaven will be. What a wonderful God we serve. 

When Paul commands believers to stop sinning, he also commands believers to put thanksgiving in its place. Paul writes: “Let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving” (Ephesians 5:4). 
Paul knows that we are always acting. We either act with sinful, thankless hearts which leads to foolish talk or crude jokes, or we act with thankful hearts and thereby please God with our speech. John Piper explains,
The key to unlocking a heart of gratitude and overcoming bitterness and ugliness and disrespect and violence is a strong belief in God, the Creator and Sustainer and Provider and Hope-giver. If we do not believe we are deeply indebted to God for all we have or hope to have, then the very spring of gratitude has gone dry. (“Violence, Ugliness, and Thanksgiving”)
We have so much to be thankful for. 

If nothing else, we weathered a severe storms this year, and were all still here. The important things remain. 

I want to do two things with the balance of our time. Firstly I want to go around the room and name things we are thankful for. Second Lets spend a few minutes in prayer. We all have had successes and trials this year. Lets spend some time thanking God for these. 



