Thirty-Three: What If He Is Alive?
Deceptive Finality
Mark 15:42-47
One of the most troubling parts of the gospel story is how fast things change from Sunday
to Friday during the days leading up to Jesus’ crucifixion. On Sunday of that week, Jesus
makes his way into Jerusalem among cheering and adoring crowds. He is celebrated as a
hero and welcomed as a friend. Today, we call that day “Palm Sunday.” In a matter of
days, however, there is a dramatic turn. The cheering is replaced by jeering. And the
crowds that cry out their adoration quickly give way to crowds that call for crucifixion.
By the end of the week, Jesus is dead. If we were to put a title on Mark 15:42-47, we
might call this part of the story, “It Sure Looks Like It’s Over to Me.”
Some scholars are critical of Joseph of Arimathea. They say that he should have spoken
up sooner and that he should have done something before Jesus’ death. On the other
hand, his behavior at this point in the story is remarkably courageous. He is one of the
Jewish leaders – and he stands as evidence that not all of the Jewish leaders wanted Jesus
to be put to death. Joseph went boldly to Pilate and dared to ask for Jesus’ body.
Eventually, the request was granted. Joseph prepared Jesus’ body for burial and then
placed the body in a cave-like tomb. He then rolled a stone against the entrance of the
tomb.
There is nothing like a burial to tell us that the story is over.
Earlier in Chapter Sixteen of The Insanity of God, we read about the death of sixteen-
year-old Tim, the son of Nik and Ruth. Tim died suddenly in Nairobi as he was rushed to
the hospital early on Easter morning of 1997. About a week or so later, hundreds of
people gathered for a memorial service in the outdoor amphitheater at the school where
Tim had been a high school sophomore. Rain started to fall just as the service came to an
end. At the conclusion of the service, the gathered group walked down the hill to the
place where Tim was to be buried, right there on the school campus.
Here are some reflections from a journal entry written by someone who was there that
day:
After we prayed and sang down there at the bottom of the hill, Nik and Ruth led
about six hundred people back up the hill for a time of fellowship and reception.
For some reason, I stayed there at the graveside. There were about twelve of us
who stayed there, the others Kenyan workers and helpers, friends of Nik and
Ruth. I felt that I was there representing the family. Nik and Ruth, I am sure,
knew what was about to happen, but I was completely unaware of Kenyan
tradition. Nik and Ruth had to be back at the school with the people, but I was
able to stay by the graveside.
In just a few moments, I realized what was about to happen. I will never forget
the instant when it dawned on me that we were going to bury Tim.
The casket was lowered into the grave – with just ropes and hands – and then four
people picked up shovels and began filling the grave. When they were tired,
others took their places. I found myself doing what everybody else was doing.
Shovels were passed around. Sometimes people simply used their hands. The
rain, the tears, the sweat; who could tell the difference? Sometimes we worked in
silence. Sometimes there was a story or two. Sometimes there was even laughter.
Sometimes there were wails of grief. Red, wet Kenyan mud was everywhere. And
together, literally, we buried Tim.
There was no stone, but we did exactly what Joseph of Arimathea did.
There is nothing quite like a burial to tell us that the story is over.
Except . . . that is not quite true. The truth of this story – and the truth of every good
burial – is that the finality is a deception. The story is not over at all! No stone is ever
the last act when it is rolled up against something in which God has a part. And that is
not just true about death. There are so many things that we are inclined to put away.
“Well, that’s the end of that!” we say. “That’s the end of that chapter. That’s finally
over.”
Get a shovel. Roll a stone. Close it up. It’s over.
But God does not pay much attention to our finalities. He has so many ways of opening
up things that are sealed up tight. And the fact that he can do that here with Jesus . . .
means that he can do that with Tim . . . and it means that he can do that with you and me
too.
And the fact that God can do that with death means that he can do that with all of our
other finalities as well. All those places where we have decided that God is not going to
work. All those people we have labeled as beyond God’s power to reach. All those
relationships that we have written off.
We simply must understand this: we think we know what the finalities are . . . but God
barely even notices.
There is nothing quite like a burial to tell us that the story is over.
Except the story is not over at all.
Joseph rolls a stone against the entrance to the tomb. But we should not pay too much
attention to the stone. God barely notices the stone at all.
Life-giving,
Death-defying
God,
forgive me for saying that the story is over.
I look at the world and I see only
impossibility.
I know when something is over.
I know when it is time to give up hope.
I know what a burial means.
But you shake your head
at my foolish pronouncements.
You tell me quietly
that you hold every story in your hands.
You assure me that no story is finished
until you say that it is finished.
Forgive me for giving up.
Forgive me for walking away.
Forgive me for deciding
exactly where you can work –
and where you cannot work.
Forgive me for declaring that certain people
are beyond your reach.
Indeed, you are the God who
gives life and defies death.
Despite my convictions
about finalities,
I trust you.
Amen
Questions for reflection:
1. What are some of the finalities in your life right now? In your heart, what are
the limits that define what God can do? Are there people in your life who
seem to be beyond the reach of God? Are there situations that seem so
difficult that are pretty sure that they will never be fixed? Are there places in
the world that seem too far away for God’s activity? What is it that you
consider “impossible” in your life right now? What do you think God would
say to you in response to that?
2. What is the difference between “living for Jesus” and “living with Jesus”? If
you had to choose one of those ways of living, which one would you choose?
Why?