To: Fema Appeals Agent

From: Kenneth Gregory Baker
           7227 Stevens Dr, Hudson, Fl 34667
           Registration ID: 61-5777219

I am appealing the 1,241.68 that I was allotted for personal property. As I explained to the Fema inspector, there were thousands of books that were wet and ruined. More that were stuck together, and more still that had mold growing on them. At least 100 were over 100 years old, including a copy of treasure island that dated back to the end of the 1800s. First editions of this book would cost around 15-30k depending on condition. I inherited my copy from my grandmother, which was likely a much much less valuable later edition (1885). But still not an inconsequential loss of a rare family heirloom. Many of the ones I have retained, may not be salvageable, but I am doing my best (moved them somewhere dry and cool asap) to preserve as many of them as I can. 

I estimate that I lost around 5000 books. 

Near as we can tell, the south end of the mobile came loose and floated a bit during the storm. The action caused books to fall into the water, and made things a lot worse than they would have been otherwise. 

Much of my library consisted of pastoral reference books. Bible commentaries, books on counseling, theology, apologetics, and biblical, American, and European history. There were primary source books from scores of religions, from the Quran, to the Bhagavad Gita, and hundreds and hundreds of other books on how to reach people who are involved in various religions and cults.  Not to mention books to help me with the original languges of the bible. Lexicons, Hebrew and Greek grammars, dictionaries in Akkadian, and latin. Entire language courses at the masters degree level were lost. Which reminds me, I have a bachelors degree in bible from Trinity college, and am close to a Masters in Divinity from Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary, and had around 500$/semester in book bills for years and years from both schools. Almost all of those books are lost. I had a complete set of Jay Adams works on biblical counseling. I had a full set of college press NIV commentaries which all on their own cost nearly as much as what was allotted to me. Further I lost my UBS 5 – and Hebrew Old Testament. My first edition leatherbound Signed and numbered collectible cosmere (Brandon Sanderson) books were all fine thankfully. The way of Kings, the first book in the stormlight archive – a part of the cosmere – is two parts, and each part sold (signed and numbered) for 550 not too long ago. The entire Sanderson part of my collection is worth 10,000 easily to the right buyer. My book collection was something I took a lot of pride in. Something I spent a lot of time finding the right books to add to it. 

It is a heart breaking amount of books. Mechanics have tools, and pastors have books. As pastor these were a tremendous loss. I had three helpers besides myself that spent several days hauling books to the dump. Unfortunately I didn’t start taking pictures till the inspecter told me to. I do have about 1200 photos of individual books, and books in groups of 2 or 3. There are so many I’m having a hard time figuring out where to even start for prices, much less to give a comprehensive comparison.  So instead, I am asking for the money to buy digital books as part of Logos Bible Software. IN particular these two “base packages” that approximate what I lost - Logos 10 Collector’s Edition, and Logos 10 Baptist Portfolio. The two together add 4240 titles to my digital library, and will cost 7292.44, an average of $1.77 per book. I would be satisfied with this, and it would mean my book collection would become almost completely digital. Logos has been in business for twenty years, and is the future of bible study. It would mean never again losing these books to a flood. See attached photos at the end for prices and total number of books I would gain. 


On top of this, I lost a Mac Pro 2019, a 32inch vizio HD lcd tv that I used as a monitor. Neither of which had been tested as of when the inspector was there, but neither work (see photos). I had stored them in my car during the storm, which I found out, has a leak in the hatch. I lost a walmart surround sound system which cost around 100$ when I purchased it, and is apparently no longer made. A comparable 5.1 surround sound system is 79.99. Most of my book cases were custom made, and from real wood. So MOST of them were ok, but Three were particle board. I have photos of one, it smells of sewage, and has begun to swell where it was wet. Rooms to go has a nice one, that would fit well with the others for 499. My nieces inform me my recliner smells like sewage and mold when sat upon, and it was wet. The manufacturer discontinued it, but this is the closest analog I can find at $899. Likewise my mattress and bed frame were in the part of the house that went the deepest into the flood waters. Both of which were growing black mold, and were disposed of. A replacement purple mattress and frame will cost about 2194 depending on their current promotions. They only have the premium bedframe available at the moment. 

The cheapest electric range appears to be about 500$ (plus tax). 

My desk is beginning to swell as well. It’s a large executive desk from a bank with a hutch. The hutch seems fine, but the desk is not. This is a close match for color and size. 

My dressers, and much of the rest of my furniture is real wood, and salvageable. Some are antique. Some are not. But still real wood. 

So long story short, here is what I’m asking for: 

Books: 7292.44 (less than 2$ per book!)
2019 Mac Pro: 3500
32” HD TV: 169.99
Surround Sound: 79.99
Book Cases: 1500
Recliner: 899.99
Mattress and Bedframe: 2194.
Desk: 874.34

I don’t think I’m asking for the world. I didn’t ask for top brands, I didn’t even ask for replacement costs for all the books.  If this is granted, I have no problem saving and sending receipts for every penny. It will be spent as outlined – though – I’ll likely replace the mac pro with a more modern mac studio. I’ll upload all the books pictures as well. I don’t have any really good pictures of the books as a whole before the flood. But there were 18 book cases full of books, with books stacked on top clear to the ceiling. Books all over my desk, books filling the area around my tv in the entertainment center, books in the desk hutch, books in my room, books on my dresser, books were everywhere. My best friend jokes that one day he’s going to turn on the news and find out I’ve been killed by an avalanche of books. I hope it is within your power to help me start over. I’ve never lost everything before as an adult. I’ve never been homeless and yet that is exactly where I find myself. Living with my parents at 40 until I find a rental. Sleeping on the floor perhaps at that point I suppose. I’m just thankful it was books, and not people.

Ken Baker