So did you enjoy the skit? Then lets give another round of applause to our wonderful actors. They have put a lot of time and effort into making the dramas as good as they are. Lots of stepping out of their comfort zones, and not because they want to be actors one day, but because there was a need, and they love children enough to risk making fools of themselves. One of the kids said the dramas are her favorite thing of the whole summer. It was a lot of work, all of it was – collecting and storing the decorations, putting them back up, transporting them, gathering the supplies, putting together the music, and sound effects, and power point presentations every night. To those who provided food, teachers, and picking up kids, and basically every single element had multiple people involved up to their eyelids, and I appreciate each and every one of you for your contributions. There is a lot of work that is seen, and that goes unseen. I know my mother put in probably 60 hours just the week leading up to vbs. Picked up kids, came early to vbs, and stayed late to clean. So much work. But in the end there were three kids that were saved on Wednesday night! That makes the months of planning, and thinking, and working to get everything read worth while to me, and I know it does for you guys as well. Amen? 

Alright, so were going to try to keep it short today. Were going to be looking at the next article in the Baptist faith and message which talks about the theology of man, this is also called anthropology. One of the things I love about theologial anthropology – the study of what the bible says about Man, is that in showing us who we are, we learn a bit more about God as well. THE BF&M statement is has more to it than we will have time to fully dig into today, so were going to dive into a chapter that talks about a fair amount about Man. If you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have, open with me to Ephesians ch 2. 

While you’re turning there I want to tell you about our unreached people group of the week. 

Malay in Indonesia
The Malay people are believed to have originated in Borneo and then expanded outwards into Sumatra and other regions, including Indonesia. These people were descendants of Austronesian-speakers who migrated from the Philippines and originally from Taiwan. Malays practiced Buddhism, Hinduism, and their native Animism before converting to Islam in the 15th century.
A strong commitment to Islam dating from the 15th century establishes strong ethnic group identity with that religion. To change religions threatens a person's place in family and society. for the few Christian believers among the Malay, that they will have Scriptu re available in their language, as well as other resources to help them grow and mature. Pray they will keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Pray the Malay of Indonesia will hunger to know more of Jesus (whom Muslims call Isa al-Masih) and will be drawn to this Man. Pray their hunger will be satisfied, that the Spirit of Christ will help them.
Ok are we there? Lets read. 

I’d like to give you a birds eye view of what Ephesians says about us apart from Christ. Hang in there. It’s quite a list. walkers in inquity, followers of the world, followers of satan, sons of disobedience, followers of the passions of our flesh, followers of the desires of our body, and mind, children of wrath, strangers, hopeless, wandered astray, separated from God by a wall of hostility, cut off from the father, without the ability to redeem ourselves, as orphans without inheritance, unenlightened, darkened hearts, weak, undeserving of Grace, children tossed too and fro by the waves, carried about by every weird doctrine as on the winds, swayed by human cunning, and craftiness, and deceiptful. Futile thinking, darkened understanding, alienated from God, ignorant, hard hearted, callus, greedy, lusty, and impure. A corpse, corrupted, deceitful, desiring the counterfeit. Thieves, corrupt of speech, bitter, full of wrath, angor, clamor and slander, malicious, unkind, hard hearted, and unforgiving, an unpleasant odor, sexually immoral, impure, covetous, filthy, foolish, crude, idolators, easily deceived, deserving of, and recipients of God’s wrath, sons of disobedience, in darkness, unfruitful, soon to be exposed, asleep, foolish, evil, unwise, debauched, drunken, unsubmitting, rebellious, unclean, disrespectful, disobedient, unprepared, unprotected, unarmored, unable to withstand evil, unrighteous, unsaved, and givers of corrupted love. 

When Paul says our righteousness is as filfthy rags, THIS is what he means. The best we can do is this list of things that Paul has given us here in Ephesians. 

When it says we are dead in our trespasses and sins, this is exactly what It means. This is how God sees our best efforts on our own. Think about that, ever felt like no matter what you did you just couldn’t live up to what was expected? In this situation its true. We are because of our sin nature incapable of living up to God’s standard. 1 cor 2:14 explains this a little more : “The person without the Spirit does not accept the things that come from the Spirit of God but considers them foolishness, and cannot understand them because they are discerned only through the Spirit.”

Without the working of God in our hearts and minds the best we can do is filthy rags. 

We can’t ever hope to measure up in our own strength, and that’s the bad news. The best we can manage results in us earning the full firey wrath of God deservedly being poured out upon us. 

But then comes verse 4. 

But God. That’s probably the best but in the bible. We are licentious, But God. We are deceitful, But God. We’ve wandered astray, But God! We are sons of disobedience, BUT GOD. We are drunks, But God, we are rebellious, and unclean, and stinky. But God being rich in mercy, and because of his great love for us, vs 4, even while we hated him, even while we desired counterfeits, even while we were disrespectful, and lovers of evil, even while we were covetous, sexually immoral and impure, God loved us. Even despite our best efforts to fight him, God made us alive together with Christ. Raised up with him, and seated with him in the heavenly places in Christ, and we become recipients of God’s immeasurable riches, and God’s grace in kindness to us. 

Not because we earned it, but because of God’s grace and lovingkindness towards us, in giving us the faith we needed for salvation. 

We have a great heavenly father. It may seem confusing that God would love us no matter how much we rebel against him. But we have a dim reflection of this Love from God within us. I know this because most all of you are parents, and many have become grandparents. When your kids were entering into their turbulent teens. Was there anything they could have done to make you not love them any more? They can grieve you deeply, they can make it hard to love them, but I don’t think any of you have ever had a child push you so far that you no longer wanted anything to do with them. You still want the best for them. You still want them to be happy, and healthy, and succeed. You want them to find love, and comfort, and peace. You still love them. 

Just like God loves us. God loves us too much to allow us to stay in our rebellion. Those that he calls to become believers in Jesus Christ, are then indwelt by the Holy Spirit, and because of that we have a washing and cleaning agent at work in our hearts and minds each day. Over time our desires change, and the things we want change, and we begin to desire the things of God over the things of the world. The poison and corruption of sin is slowly pulled from us. We should be fighting the old us to the best of our abilities as well. There is a quote by Billy Sunday that makes me chuckle, he says “Listen, I'm against sin. I'll kick it as long as I've got a foot. I'll fight it as long as I've got a fist. I'll butt it as long as I've got a head. And I'll bite it as long as I've got a tooth, and when I'm old, fistless, footless and toothless, I’ll gum it till I go home to glory. That should be our approach. Not because it will save us. It won’t. But out of gratitude to God for his great love for us. 

All of that starts with the gospel though. 