We are gathered here today to celebrate the memory of Jean. She was one of my grandmothers dearest friends, and like a second mother to my father. Shes been a part of my life for nearly my whole life, and like all of you, I loved her dearly. 

Did you know, as long as she was living on her own, she had never forgotten about my birthday? It was near hers, and getting her card reminded me to call her and wish her a happy birthday also. 

She was my co-worker for a time. As my grandmother aged, and needed more help, she was part of the team that took care of her and my grandfather in their twilight years. 

After my grandmother passed, we were talking about my grandmothers funeral arrangements, and she mentioned that one of her favorite verses was the same as my grandmothers. 

Proverbs 3:5-6 – Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him and he will make straight your path. 

That’s hard to do, when you’re grieving the loss of a loved one. 

Some people think they shouldn’t cry, or grieve at all. But honestly, EVEN Jesus Grieved. In fact I want to spend a moment talking about that. If you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have, please open with me to John 11:30-44

 While you’re turning there I want to point out our savior Jesus knows every aspect of what its like to be human. He ate, and slept, and was tired. He even grieved like us. 

I read a story about an author who had spent her career writing a series of stories about this one man in particular, and she came to love that man, and wanted to see him properly taken care of. So she wrote herself into the story, so that the man she loved could be properly taken care of. 

Its true though, the only way that MacBeth could ever know Shakespear is for Shakespear to write himself into the story. It true of all created things. Unless the creator writes himself in, how can the creation know their creator. 

That’s exactly what God did for us. He sent a part of himself – Jesus – to live among us, to teach us about him. To show us the way forward. To show us the way to heaven. 

Alright, lets read. 

30 Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. 31 When the Jews who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. 32 Now when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, “Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.” 33 When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved[e] in his spirit and greatly troubled. 34 And he said, “Where have you laid him?” They said to him, “Lord, come and see.” 35 Jesus wept. 36 So the Jews said, “See how he loved him!” 37 But some of them said, “Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying?”
Jesus Raises Lazarus
38 Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. 39 Jesus said, “Take away the stone.” Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, “Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days.” 40 Jesus said to her, “Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God?” 41 So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, “Father, I thank you that you have heard me. 42 I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me.” 43 When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come out.” 44 The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, “Unbind him, and let him go.”
Seems like a lot of people feel as though God is a distant, unknowable, unknowing being. Yet the bible tells us Jesus was both fully God, and fully man. I heard someone say if God knew what life is like here, things would be different. 

And yet, our God wrote himself into the story, sent his son to live and model for us a perfect life, and then when we killed him, used the death of his son to pay the price for our sins. 

It’s a gift beyond measure. But you can clearly see his humanity on display here. Mary was quite upset. Here Jesus had been going around healng people all over the place. His God given ability to heal had been on display all over the ancient world. She KNEW on a deep level that Jesus absolutely could have kept Lazarus from death. I think that’s why shes a little heated in vs 32. What we didn’t read was that Jesus had gotten the message a while back and he waited several days before heading to see Lazarus. Mary is saying – accusing – really of allowing her brother whom she loved dearly to die. 

I think that’s a position we can relate to. No one likes it when some one dies. Even Jesus weeps – vs 35. I’ve heard preachers say it must have just been a little tear drop running down the face of Jesus. But I think it is something more than that. He grieved in the way that was appropriate for the time. Maybe he went down on his knees and tore his clothes. Maybe he wept till his nose ran. All we know is the jews around him said based on how Jesus grieved that “wow, he must have really loved Lazarus” vs 36. 

I’m not going to dogmatically say this was a full on nose running ugly cry, but it might have been. Jesus felt the loss of Lazarus deeply. Even KNOWING that it wouldn’t take long for Lazarus to be restored to life, still he wept. Jesus knows us in our grieving. He knows what it feels like for us to lose someone we love. Even when we have the firm hope, the firm knowledge that we who are believers in Jesus Christ like Jean was will one day spend eternity in heaven with both Jesus, and our lost loved ones like Jean. 

I think sometimes especially as men we need permission to grieve. If the one who spoke the universe into existence needed to cry, than I think we can too. 

This passage also shows Jesus divinity. Who else but God has command over life and death. We see this power in vs 41 and following. Read with me: Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, “Father, I thank you that you have heard me. 42 I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me.” 43 When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come out.”

And Lazarus did come out. 

Jesus has power over life and death, and yet we know from history that his father passed away, and he didn’t cause his father to resurrect. He truly knows what we feel, and what we go through. He knows what it is to have loved and lost. Even knowing He would see those people again. Still he wept. 

Scripture tells us to weep with those who weep. I believe that God weeps with us too. He knows the feeling of Loss. 

But it is His divinity that enabled him to do what he did on the cross for us. 

No one else was good enough to pay the price for our sins. Only Jesus. 

One thing I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that Jean would want from me today is to do my best to tell you guys how to get to where shes at. 

That starts with Sin. 

Gospel. 
