We need a shepherd

Psalms 23
 Its easy to tell from the world around us that something isn’t quite right. You guys notice that? I’m reminded of a verse repeated over and over and over throughout judges. Where the author writes of the people of Israel, that they kept on doing the things that were right in their own eyes. What do you guys remember of the book of judges? We’ve spent a fair amount of time there the last couple years? The Israelites would see something shiny, and run away from God. If God wanted them to go right, they would argue and complain, and gripe and moan and fight it every step of the way until he sent a new judge in to help right the ship. Some of those judges – even Gideon got mixed up in idolatry himself. Cycle after cycle after cycle of sin and rebellion against God, followed by God allowing them to be consumed by the consequences of their sin, followed by their rescue. Then repeat. Are we any better though? Its easy to stand here and say hey look, Israelites have messed up. It’s a little harder to do a little soul searching on our own and point at where we have messed up. 

It strikes me that during the American period of slavery the church in America was the only one that ever tried to create a theology that justified slavery. This is a thing we have as a denomination had to repent of several times because our denomination led the way on that to our shame. But the point is every generation of people has their own pet sin that they are blind to. 

Young people today have plenty of obvious things from an obsession with video games to the detriment of their time with the Lord, to plurosexuality. Which is a word I made up to describe the lgbtq+ movement, and all their 3million and some odd genders that people say now exist, to describe the proclivity towards homosexuality, and bisexuality, and trans-sexuality. What one generation tolerated the next is now embracing. Open relationships have gone from being a shameful secret, to something people are proud of and publicly proclaim. And its shameful. These are the things people in my generation are blind to, and openly engaging in. These are the things your kids and grand kids are engaging in. 

In previous generations, even amongst mature believers, there are a certain group of sins that are held to in many circles even more strongly than scripture. In my personal life, I’ve been more patriotic than most, I’ve been to almost 30 other countries, and I can say with authority of all the countries I’ve been to in the west, and elsewhere, in the first and third worlds, we live in the best country. Is it perfect? Nope. But it is a wonderful place for most of the people that live here. But sometimes previous generations mistake the president for Christ. They see politics as the way to draw the world back to Christ, rather than through evangelism. I always vote for the guy that best represents me morally first, and then fiscally second. I want to see a nation that follows Christ in its laws. But I’m also aware that mostly any real and lasting, and important changes will have to come from the bottom up. When enough people in the nation have accepted Christ, then our land will once again legislate in godly ways. 

I saw a meme the other day. And this meme was really off putting at first. In the picture was a girl in pink, a guy, and then another girl in blue. 

The girl in pink is walking towards the camera oblivious, the guy is staring in an inappropriate way, and then the girl in blue – obviously the guys boyfriend is angry, and disgusted. The girl in pink had a shirt that read nationalism. The boy had a caption that read American evangelicalism, and the girl in blue had a caption that read the way of Jesus. 

In other words the church has become so enamored with nationalism, and with politics that perhaps we have become an offense to the way of Jesus. 

Just something to search our hearts over. This is one of those things that is a difficult area. Because like eating food, we can’t just stop being politically engaged, and caring about our country. Both food, and caring about our country are necessary for survival. 

I’m sort of reminded of a thing that’s happening with with Joy when she was a puppy. She’s a  a purebred Catahoula leopard hound. Kind of like grace, for those of you that knew her, but not a cross breed. Unbeknownst to me she came with an issue. She had an abscess on the top of her head. It was nearly flat when we brought her home, but by Thursday it looked like a golfball on top of her head. It was very tender to the touch, anytime we messed with it we made her cry. Poor thing would cry and wiggle and cry and wiggle and cry while we were trying to lance it with an exacto knife. We finally gave up, and Friday we applied hot compresses to her head, and eventually it started to drain. 

But just draining isn’t enough, in order to keep her healthy we have to poke at it, and squeeze it, and were giving her a shot of antibiotics in side of it, all things that are necessary to help her, to keep her alive. But all things that she doesn’t quite like. Especially the shot. Ultimately we had to take her to the vet, and have it cut out. She had a tooth stuck in her skull. But To be a good master, to be a good shepherd we have to treat this gross thing growing on her head. It was loving to cut it open and drain the mess out. 

Ok so we need a shepherd, because we are dumb compared to sheep. Were quick to forsake Christ, and so God through David gave us a message. It’s a message that I think is emmintly personal. Look at this with me. 

Its personal

My Shepherd, I shall not want, makes me rest, he leads me, he restores me, I walk, I will not fear, comfort me, prepare a table for me, in front of my enemies, anoint my head, goodness and mercy follow me, all the days of my life, dwell with the Lord.  
14 times the author refers to himself. This psalm was something deeply personal for him. It was a reflection of what he was going through I think. Many commentators say that David wrote this song at a very difficult time in his life. Which time it was they agree on less. BUT it was probably when Saul was hunting for him. 

You guys might remember sending me to Europe to share the gospel with muslims? For those of you that don’t know back in 2009 I spent some time in Europe, mostly the UK telling people about Jesus. While I was in the UK the group of people I spent the most time with were the muslims that had emigrated from other lands a couple of generations prior. Some were from Pakistan, or afghanistan some from iran, or india. But mostly Pakistan, and Afghanistan. Obviously in order to meat my team, I had to have names, and addresses and phone numbers. I had basically enough info to get a missionary hurt or killed if my laptop fell into the hands of the wrong person. So I had to have a heavy duty encryption software that locked every singly bit of data on my hard drive and require a password with 128 letters to unlock. They warned me though that if I ever ended up going to a country that was run by muslims instead of a western country like I was heading to that this huge amount of encryption was not enough. Because if the whole state wants to know whats on your laptop, the state can find out. What the state wants, the state gets, and if that’s contact info for Christians in a muslim country they are especially motivated. Now, thanks to the providence of God, my laptop was never seized, no missionary was ever compromised. 

But what the state wants, the state gets. Could you imagine being hunted by the FBI? There was a show on a couple years back that promised 250k to anyone who could elude the best trackers in the world for 30 days. Some were cops, some were from Interpol, some were from the FBI, CIA, MI6, KGB, SAS, and another from Israels secret service. These guys were some of the best of the best. With a laptop and a tv screen each, they talked about, learned about, manipulated peoples friends, and family, preyed upon their weaknesses, and by the end of the month, nearly everyone had been caught because when you have the resources of the state behind you, the resources of an entire country its next to impossible to get away. 

Now Saul didn’t have the internet but he surely had an army, likely had foreign intelligence opperatives, had money, and desperately wanted to find david and kill him. Plus he was the king of a relatively small area his entire country could have fit in florida with room to spare. The whole thing was only 6600 square miles. In fact the whole thing is only a little bigger than the land area of the Bahamas. Haiti is nearly twice its size. So it wouldn’t have been horribly difficult to track down a single man. 

Point is davids circumstaces were dire. Sauls resources were nearly unlimited compared to david. 

Despite the resources of an entire nation, God cupped his hands around a single man and spared him from death. Not discomfort. Not spared from hard times. But God spared him, and allowed David to go through these had times for davids benefit. Looking at some of the later psalms you can see the depth of his love for God. His soul david says, thirst for god, in a dry and weary land where there is no water, he longs for God above all things. So david wasn’t spared from the valley of the shadow of death. He wasn’t spared from things that made his soul require restoration. He wasn’t spared from situations that allowed him to make enemies. Yet look at the things that God whispered into David’s heart. The whole thing is full of promises. 
Its full of descriptions of Gods ministry to us.
I think we could spend a month just working through the things outlined here. So were going to hit a few of the highlights, and I’ll let you work through the rest in your own quiet times. 

I love the line about making us lie down in green pastures. Were sheep. We so frequently choose to go the wrong direction. like we talked about before when left to our own devices we so frequently run as hard as we can in the wrong directions. Its like it says over and over and over in the book of judges “In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes.”. What do we know about how that worked for Israel? I’m sure you know Judges says “and everyone followed God, and lived a holy life, and there were no issues with sin. Of course not! Judges is full of cycles of sin, punishment and repentance. They become – even some of the judges at times were enamored with an idol, God left them to their depravity. Allowed them to be punished as a result of their depravity, and then demonstrated once more that he’s real, and powerful and good. Freeing them from whatever trouble they had gotten themselves into. Or from captivity, or rebuilding the wall. Or from whatever trouble they’ve found. We left to our own devices stray into troubles. We cause ourselves heart ache and pain. We work to hard, and rest too little. I think as americans especially we can relate to needing to be made to lie down in green pastures. 

Today those of us who’ve been saved for a while, we tend to get wrapped up in being busy. There is so much need out there. So many that need help. Thinking back to after Irma, Helene, or Idalia, or any of the other storms that affected us. Many of you have opened your homes, or stayed with someone who had opened their home. Many of you have been working hard to get tree limbs cut up and out of your yard, or your neighbor’s yard, or putting up and taking down storm shutters. We evacuated to Kenny duffields house after Irma, which was a huge blessing, and we were able to bless him in the wake of that by helping him move. Point is you can be so busy with your own life. Or so busy helping people for God that you forget to spend time with God. Helping people can be an idol. Life can be an idol. 

In any case we – even we believers need to be made to lie down at times. Dottie has shared her testimony about her leg before, and how God has used that to deepen, and strengthen her faith. That was the start of her intentionally using her God given musical talents for his glory.  While I’m sure it wasn’t fun, it is something that God has used in a major way to move in her life. Before she was riding horses, and now she’s a musician that writes books telling people about Jesus, and all for the glory of God. Now. In hindsight, based on who she was, I don’t think it would have taken anything less for her to set aside horses, and embrace the ministry God had for her down the line. Plus she needed that deepening of her faith that the year of the leg brought her as part of her preparation for what he would have her do. How many articles talk about the year of the Leg?

I see the green pasture as being an equipping time. Sheep eat there, and drink there and rest there. Some sheep might wander off the path there, and you know what the shepherds did when that happened? They’d go pick up the little ewe or ram that had wandered off, and break their leg. Sound awful right? Painful? I’m sure peta would call it cruel. But you know what effect that would have on that particular sheep? For the next two weeks – because sheep heal quickly, that shepherd would carry that sheep around with him every where he’d go. He’d carry her to the water for drinks, carry her to the good grass to eat. Carry her to a place safe to use the bathroom. Every need she had was met by the shepherd personally. For the rest of that sheeps life, she will never leave the shepherds side. She learned there is safety with the shepherd, comfort, and healing there. Love there. She learned the shepherd would lay down his life for her. All things she cant see when she wanders off, where a worse fate than a broken leg awaits her. Where lions prowl, and hungry momma bears are looking for snakcs for their babies. 

I think the predator I like least is the coyote. You know why? They don’t just kill for food. They will kill for fun too sometimes. They will kill an animal, and not even eat it. Perhaps they wanted the sport. 

Now God doesn’t often break our legs literally. But hard times feed into molding and shaping us into what God has for us. We are equipped through good things and hard things. Sometimes we need to take a nap by a beautiful stream in a safe meadow full of lush grass, with rabbits and deer as companions. And sometimes we need our proverbial legs broken. C. H. Spurgeon3 famously said “The Christian is made strong and firmly rooted by all the trials of life”

More than all of this he promises to equip us when we need it, make us rest when we need it, lead us towards righteousness. He promises to restore our soul. To walk with us while things are bad. Even his very presence is a comfort to us. Preparing a table in the presence of our enemies, being anointed, goodness, and mercy, and living in the eternal presence of God are all HUGE things. 

I think here on earth were more likely to learn through the valley of the shadow. Through the hurricanes, conmen, and heartaches this world has to offer. Its true of us with every thing God teaches us, that we learn through experience. That’s why people says its dangerous to pray for patience. Because God gives you opportunities to exhibit patience. When you pray for discernment God gives you opportunities where discernment must be exhibited. The same is true likewise for faith in, and trust in God. If God needs to teach us to trust him, he’s going to allow us to go through circumstances that require us to trust him. Like maybe a great big huge 185 mph storm that threatens to erase our homes, and our friends homes, and animals, and everything else. 

Ultimately though we know we are in a training ground right? Were being prepared for eternity. While God will lead us beside still waters, make us lie down in green pastures, and all of the rest of the promises in this chapter, at best we can only see a microcosm of what these things will be like in glory for eternity. God makes us rest here, true. But we won’t know perfect rest until we are in glory. While we can know comfort here, its true, we won’t know the perfect comfort gleaned from the presence of God until we are in glory. While we can know security here, we won’t know the fullest expression of that until we are in the very presence of God face to face with Jesus. 

People you think you know joy now, just wait, just wait till you meet our God face to face. Because at that moment the things of earth will grow strangely dim in the light of his glory and grace. 

I was reading in Romans 12 this week, and in fact we almost had a sermon on romans 12, presenting our bodies as a living sacrifice, as our reasonable act of worship. But while I was reading, it struck me, that so often its our worship that causes us trouble. I don’t mean Sunday worship in church. I like to think we are doing our best to be as close to God on a Sunday morning as we can. But I mean through the week. A friend of mine grew up in a Christian home, and wasn’t allowed to curse as a for instance, but at school, it felt dangerous to curse, risky. Forbidden, and she felt like it would help her to better relate to the other kids at school. For her cursing and acceptance were synonymous. Maybe she’d just never heard the biblical prohibiitions against foul language. Or maybe for her cursing began as an offering to the god of belonging. 

I went on to share with her this excerpt of an article that says: “Scripture directly tells us, " Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen." (Ephesians 4:29) 
The Bible instructs us to “bless and do not curse them.” (Romans 12:14) and warns us that "whoever would love life and see good days must keep his tongue from evil and his lips from deceitful speech" (1 Peter 3:10). God clearly instructs Christians to not curse or swear. Jesus makes it very clear in James 3 that the mark of a Christian is in their speech: "With the tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men, who have been made in God’s likeness. Out of the same mouth come praise and cursing. My brothers, this should not be."
Continuing on in James 3, Jesus emphasizes the power and importance of our words as Christians. He compares the tongue to a double-edged sword, capable of both blessing and cursing. Just as a spring cannot produce both fresh water and salt water, our speech should reflect the purity of our hearts. Therefore, as followers of Christ, we are called to guard our tongues and speak words of love, encouragement, and edification rather than words that tear down or curse others. Just as a fig tree cannot bear olives or a grapevine bear figs, our speech should reflect the nature of our faith, producing fruit that is consistent with the teachings of Jesus. Therefore, let us be mindful of the impact of our words and strive to use them to glorify God and build up those around us.
Why does it matter for us to consider cursing, swearing, or using profanity a sin? It matters because it reflects the condition of our hearts and our obedience to God's commandments regarding our speech. Our words are not just random expressions; they are windows into the depths of our hearts. As Jesus teaches in Matthew 15:18-19, "But what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart, and this defiles a person. For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander." Therefore, the language we choose to use reflects the condition of our innermost being. If our hearts are filled with love, kindness, and purity, our words will reflect that. Conversely, if our hearts are harboring bitterness, anger, or malice, our speech will betray those inner attitudes. Our words should align with the character of Christ and be used to edify and encourage others 


It strikes me that people are a lot like my little dog. They have this huge abscess on the top of their head, and it hurts sometimes to do whats necessary to treat it. We all have, and or have had different idols. For some of you it was drinking, or drugs, or lies, or gang life, or politics, or maybe even nationalism and politics. Whatever yours is, think about it now, it’s a nasty boil or an abscess on your head, or on your heart. Treatment is painful, and you might need a shot. Maybe you need to go live in rehab. But on an intellectual level, you know that without treatment you’re going to feel bad, and have a nasty infection that over the long term can put your life at risk. Let me tell you people sin over the long term apart from Christ puts your very soul at risk. 

as the praise team comes up to sing a final song, ask your self if your heart is truly clean of abscesses of sin & idolatry. If not, heres the alter, come talk to God and get clean. If you do not yet have a relationship with Jesus that is where it starts, come talk to me during the song, and I’ll show you in the bible how you can have eternal life.
Lets close in prayer. 

 