Jonah 4 — God Is in Control


We're going to be in Jonah chapter 4 today. Jonah is in the Old Testament, and it's been a while since I've preached there, so the pages might still be stuck together. If you open to about the middle you'll be in the Psalms. Flip further toward the end. Jonah is considered a minor prophet — which has more to do with the amount he wrote than the importance of what he wrote. Look for Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, then Jonah. If you go too far you'll hit Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, and Zephaniah — or if you reach Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John, you've gone too far. Jonah is just a few pages back from the start of the New Testament.

While you're turning there, I want to point out some similarities between what was happening then and what's happening now.

Back then, the Ninevites were a scourge to Israel. It's interesting that many artifacts from this period are still on display from Nineveh in the British Museum — winged lions and all sorts of things that have withstood the test of time, standing as a testament to their craftsmanship. We also have a number of written materials from Nineveh. One was written by King Sennacherib — anyone remember that name? It's an important one in the Old Testament.

Think back with me. Remember how the nation of Israel had mostly fallen? It had split into two separate nations — the northern kingdom and the southern kingdom. Some tribes stayed north, some stayed south. Sennacherib conquered the northern tribes, and nearly conquered the southern tribes before his death. Ultimately the southern tribes — the nation of Judah — were conquered in 586 BC as the Neo-Babylonian empire rose to power. Sennacherib wrote: "And Hezekiah of Judah who had not submitted to my yoke...him I shut up in Jerusalem his royal city like a caged bird. Earthworks I threw up against him, and anyone coming out of his city gate I made pay for his crime. His cities which I had plundered I had cut off from his land." Hezekiah ended up paying tribute to Sennacherib, and that too was etched in stone and kept in Nineveh. I actually got to see that stone when I lived in the UK, at the British Museum.

Nineveh was a thorn in the side of both kingdoms — conquering Israel outright and subjugating Judah as a vassal. Overlords who seize power are rarely appreciated by those from whom power was seized. Jonah hated the Assyrians. Nineveh was their capital, and God was sending him into the heart of enemy territory to offer mercy to the people who were raping and pillaging his homeland.

Imagine what it would have been like if, during World War II, a Jewish man was asked by God to go to the heart of Hitler's empire — to Berlin, where Hitler was — and share God's mercy with Nazis. I can't imagine how hard that would have been. Yet this was God's request of Jonah, and God's expectation that he would follow through.

We all know the story. Jonah tried to run in the opposite direction. He tried everything he could to avoid offering mercy to his enemies, and ultimately God had the last laugh — Jonah ended up vomited up on shore, forever bleached white by his time in the belly of the fish. He spent three days street-preaching the shortest sermon ever recorded: "Forty days and God's going to destroy you unless you repent." He then stormed out of the city, hoping his preaching had been poor enough to prevent them from being saved. He planted himself angrily on the ground and sat there, hoping against hope to watch his enemies destroyed.

Instead, the opposite happened. Widespread turning from sin to God — they hadn't been vived yet, to be revived — but a genuine turning nonetheless.

To this day there is a monument to Jonah in Nineveh, in northern Iraq.

That is roughly where we find Jonah in chapter 4. Angrily watching God work in the lives of Israel's enemies.


Before we read, I want to introduce our people group of the week: the Gujar of India. The Gujar may not be a name you've heard, but if you know history, you have heard of one of their famous ancestors. A man named Attila. Attila the Hun. This people group is essentially the modern-day descendants of the Huns. They are still quite nomadic and difficult to reach as a result — rarely in the same place twice. As a Sunni Muslim group, there are additional difficulties in reaching them. Who will pray for the Gujar of India?

Let's read Jonah chapter 4.

Right in the first verse we see that what had happened "displeased Jonah exceedingly," according to the ESV. I looked that up in Hebrew, and the Reformation Study Bible notes it was quite vivid: literally, "It was evil to Jonah, a great wrong." It sort of sounds like our former president, but in the negative instead of the positive. If it had been Trump, he might have said, "It was a terrible thing that God did. Absolutely evil. The worst." Jonah was so upset that he lacked the words to say it with enough force the first time, so he had to say it twice. Nineveh was repenting, and Jonah was mad. The Lord was offering forgiveness, and Jonah was mad.

It's important to stop right here and point out something about God — and how it applies to us. Nineveh was exceedingly evil. They persecuted and abused every land they conquered. When they were finally destroyed, the Ninevites were massacred. So many were killed that archaeologists found the streets literally littered with the dead. Corpses everywhere, left to rot — likely as a warning to those who would come after, a reminder of how evil the Ninevites had been, and how hated. People exterminated. Whole families. Even children. Jonah was right to despise what they had done.

Like us looking back at the Nazis. What they did was absolutely evil — no two ways about it. Genocide, murder, medical experimentation, subjugation. Pretty much every evil mankind has conceived of, the Nazis concentrated, bottled up, and poured out on God's people. Assyria was roughly the same. Yet God sent them a prophet and a warning and an opportunity for change — and the Assyrians accepted it.

You and I know that's cause for celebration. But for Jonah it felt like his enemies — the people actively destroying his homeland — were coming out on top.

Have you ever felt like your enemy was coming out on top? Like they might ruin everything you love? Like inexplicably God had chosen their side? That's where Jonah is.

That might be where some of you are — deeply grieved that the Democrats are in power again. One of the book series I've been reading boils everything down to the forces of ruin and preservation. It feels almost allegorical to the political situation: one group pushing for change, the other clinging to what they love and trying to preserve it. The supporters of ruin never see themselves that way. But in this world — as in my book — it isn't that simple.

God is not a Democrat. Neither is God a Republican. Those labels are beneath him. And if we're honest, there isn't one of us here who doesn't see things in our party and in our country that are worth preserving — and at the same time, if we're honest, there are things in our party of choice that need to change. The truth is almost always in the middle, not on the fringes.

Verse 2: Jonah launches into an "I told you so" with God. Which honestly kind of tickles me. Didn't I tell you this disaster would happen? That you'd be weak on our enemies? As though God didn't know his own plan — a plan that in a decade or so would result in Nineveh's obliteration anyway. God knew. Jonah's anger flows from his lack of faith.

Knowledge of God doesn't always lead to faith in God.

But what is terrible for Jonah is good news for us. God is merciful to whomever he wants — especially those who don't deserve it. Who actually deserves God's grace and mercy? Our God extends it even to those who would, by any objective standard, call themselves the chief of sinners. There is no one too far gone. Not Paul, who was a murderer — God used him to write much of the New Testament. Not David, who murdered, conspired to murder, committed sexual sin. No one is out of reach. If God wants you, he can get to you. Which should be a warm reassurance. If he extends grace to these Ninevites — the enemies of his chosen people — then he can reach you too, whatever you've done. God meets us where we are, not where we think he wants us to be.

Verse 5: It strikes me that Jonah, who had just been vomited up by the fish because of his own rebelliousness, still refuses to accept that the Ninevites should receive the same grace that had been extended to him for his.

Let's rest on that for a moment. Each of us has sinned. Everyone here has done something that displeases God. Scripture says it, and it's true of all of us. We are all rebels before our souls hear the gospel call that leads us to regeneration, repentance, and sanctification.

Calvin wrote that our hearts are a perpetual factory of idols. As soon as we knock one down, we set another up. We think we're doing well, and then — bam — our success becomes an idol. Our pride becomes an idol. Our own security becomes an idol.

Most Christians, if you walked up to them and said, "You value your own security and comfort over God," would tell you no, they don't. But if you're more upset about a Biden presidency that might last four or eight years than you are about someone spending eternity in hell, then perhaps your own security and comfort is your idol.

One step further: anyone who is lost — and I believe Joe Biden is lost, and we need to pray for him about that — has the same access to Jesus that we do. He is subject to the same God we are, who is able to overcome our rebelliousness and draw us into relationship with himself, draw us away from our sins and selfish pride. However awful you think a Biden presidency is, remember that he is God's man. Remember that we need to pray for him. Remember that it isn't politics that saves us, and it isn't our nation that saves us. It's God — who is sovereign over the Democrats just as he is over the Republicans.

As a result we are no better than Jonah when we are angry about what God is doing with our enemies. And even calling the opposing party our enemy is strong tea — stronger than they deserve. Both parties are two wings of the same bird. Wishing doom on one wing dooms us all. What Christians should be pulling for is the gospel. We should desire that God get hold of the hearts of our political opponents and draw them to himself. No party has the market cornered on properly loving God, properly reflecting Scripture, properly approaching the gospel.

It's hard to watch someone you think is ruining the country run things. But God is in control. Say it with me. God is in control. Who is in control? God is. Not my vote, not your vote, not the cumulative votes of the nation — only God is in control. He's in control of you, and me, and the election, and Donald Trump, and Joe Biden. He is a warm blanket that offers the only real security and comfort we can know.


Take out a pen. You're about to get a collection of verses I hope you study this week.

Psalm 91:4: "He will cover you with his feathers; you will take refuge under his wings. His faithfulness will be a protective shield."

Psalm 34:7-9: "The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him, and he delivers them. Taste and see that the Lord is good; blessed is the one who takes refuge in him. Fear the Lord, you his holy people, for those who fear him lack nothing."

Taste and see. Test him and know.

2 Thessalonians 3:3-5: "But the Lord is faithful, and he will strengthen you and protect you from the evil one. We have confidence in the Lord that you are doing and will continue to do the things we command. May the Lord direct your hearts into God's love and Christ's perseverance."

If he can protect you from Satan, why are you worried about a president you disagree with? You think Joe Biden is more dangerous than Satan? There used to be a show where Claymation figures of famous people fought each other to the death. You think if that show starred the devil himself and Joe Biden, Joe Biden would win? Of course not. If God can handle Satan, he can handle Joe Biden and Donald Trump and any other person in political power.

Isaiah 41:10-12: "So do not fear, for I am with you; do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you; I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. All who rage against you will surely be ashamed and disgraced; those who oppose you will be as nothing and perish. Though you search for your enemies, you will not find them. Those who wage war against you will be as nothing at all."

One day when we are standing in heaven, which of our enemies will be there? The lost will be cast into the lake of fire, along with the devil. There will be no enemies left to find.

Psalm 23:1-6: "The Lord is my shepherd, I lack nothing. He makes me lie down in green pastures, he leads me beside quiet waters, he refreshes my soul. He guides me along the right paths for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the darkest valley, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows. Surely your goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever."

We sheep are even too dumb to lie down where we need to. We had a sheep go down last Friday morning — one moment fine, the next on death's doorstep. She stretched her legs straight out in front and behind her instead of curling them underneath. We had to fight her on it and help her curl her legs up. It was a battle. We aren't God — we can't overcome a sheep's stubbornness indefinitely. We have to sleep. So she'd fight her legs back out again. She ended up dying, at least in part because she wouldn't lie down right.

But where we are finite and weak, God is infinite and strong. He guides us, protects us with his rod and staff. We can eat at a table set right in front of our enemies without fear of them taking it, because God's goodness and mercy follow us all the days of our lives. No matter how dark things look — no matter who runs the House, the Senate, the Oval Office — who is in control? If God wanted a different president, can anyone cheat their way around his will? No. Never. Romans 13: there is no authority except that which God has ordained. It's a bitter pill when your party loses. But no matter who is president, who is King?

Don't be like Jonah. Share the gospel. Pray for your enemies. Rejoice when they are saved.
